header:
  namespace: clarion
  clan: game-quest
  source-language: en-US
  target-language: zh-CN
groups:
- path: quest.brief
  entries:
  - id: brief-tide-run
    source: The tide turns twice a day, and twice a day the harbor forgets who owes
      whom. Carry the sealed manifest to the quartermaster before the water rises,
      and the ledger stays honest for one more night.
    target: 潮水每天涨落两次，港口也就每天两次忘记谁欠了谁。趁水位上涨前，把密封货单交给军需官，账本就能再多清白一晚。
  - id: brief-ninth-light
    source: Nine lights ring the inner water. Eight are tended by the harbor guild;
      the last one stands on a rock the guild pretends not to see, and it has never
      once gone dark.
    target: 九盏灯环绕着内水。八盏由港口公会照看；最后一盏立在公会假装看不见的礁石上，从未暗过一次。
  - id: quest-title-last-watch
    source: Willow's Last Watch
    target: Willow的最后守望
  - id: journal-note-order
    source: Marrow reads the manifest before he opens the gate, so objective 2 stays
      locked until objective 1 is signed off.
    target: Marrow 会先读货单再开闸门，所以在目标 1 确认完成前，目标 2 会一直锁定。
  - id: brief-warning-fog
    source: 'Fog comes in from the west without warning. If you cannot see the next
      light, stop rowing and wait: the current here is patient, and sooner or later
      it will carry you back to the pier.'
    target: 雾会毫无预兆地从西边涌来。如果你看不见下一盏灯，就停下桨等着：这里的水流很有耐心，迟早会把你带回码头。
- path: quest.objectives
  entries:
  - id: objective-03a
    source: Deliver the Sealed Manifest to Marrow
    target: 将密封货单交给 Marrow
  - id: objective-03b
    source: Deliver the Sealed Manifest to Marrow
    target: 将密封货单交给 Marrow
  - id: objective-04a
    source: Restore Power to the Tide Gate
    target: 恢复潮汐闸门的动力
  - id: objective-04b
    source: Restore Power to the Tide Gate
    target: 恢复潮汐闸门的动力
  - id: objective-relight
    source: Relight the Ninth Light before the ebb
    target: 在退潮前重新点亮第九盏灯
  - id: objective-count-crates
    source: '{secured, plural, one {# crate secured} other {# crates secured}}'
    target: '{secured, plural, one {已固定 # 个箱子} other {已固定 # 个箱子}}'
  - id: objective-check-lines
    source: Check the mooring lines on the east pier
    target: 检查东码头的系泊缆绳
- path: quest.dialogue
  entries:
  - id: hail-01a
    source: Hand me the lantern, friend.
    target: 把提灯递给我，朋友。
  - id: hail-01b
    source: Hand me the lantern, friend.
    target: 把提灯递给我，朋友。
  - id: hail-02a
    source: Marrow says the dock is open to you.
    target: Marrow 说码头对你开放。
  - id: hail-02b
    source: Marrow says the dock is open to you.
    target: Marrow 说码头对你开放。
  - id: dialogue-willow-keeps
    source: Willow has kept the Ninth Light burning for eleven winters, and she has
      never once asked the guild for oil.
    target: Willow 让第九盏灯燃烧了十一个冬天，却从未向公会要过一次灯油。
  - id: dialogue-burn-it
    source: Burn it before Marrow's boat reaches the pier. Cold cinders tell him nothing.
    target: 在 Marrow 的船抵达码头前烧掉它。冷掉的灰烬什么也不会告诉他。
  - id: success-echo
    source: The Ninth Light is yours to keep now. Do not make me regret the hand-over.
    target: 第九盏灯现在归你照看了。别让我后悔把它交出去。
  - id: line-success-tide
    source: The gate holds. Whatever you did down there, the water is going where
      it should.
    target: 闸门撑住了。不管你在下面做了什么，水总算流向了该去的地方。
  - id: line-failure-tide
    source: The gate is jammed and the pier is under water. Come back when the tide
      drops and we will try again.
    target: 闸门卡住了，码头被水淹了。等退潮后回来，我们再试一次。
- path: items.rewards
  entries:
  - id: item-relay-grid-desc
    source: 'The relay grid is robust: one failed beacon does not break the chain.'
    target: 中继网很健壮：一个信标失效并不会断掉整条链。
  - id: item-lamp-oil-desc
    source: One flask feeds the lamp for 30 minutes at the default wick height.
    target: 在默认灯芯高度下，一瓶灯油可供灯燃烧 30 分钟。
  - id: item-fog-lamp-desc
    source: A squat brass lamp with a scratched blue shutter. The light it throws
      is weak, but in fog a weak light scatters less than a bright one.
    target: 一盏矮胖的黄铜灯，蓝色遮光板上有划痕。它发出的光很弱，但在雾中，弱光比强光散射得更少。
  - id: achv-marrow-debt
    source: Marrow's Debt
    target: Marrow的债务
  - id: achv-nine-nights
    source: Nine Nights, Nine Lights
    target: 九夜九灯
- path: system.messages
  entries:
  - id: system-welcome-runner
    source: Fair tide, {playerName}. Your last run ended 3 days ago.
    target: 顺潮，{playerName}。你上一趟航行在 3 天前结束。
  - id: system-keybind-lantern
    source: Hold [E] to raise the lantern; press [Q] to signal.
    target: 按住 [E] 举起提灯；按 [Q] 发信号。
  - id: system-signal-range
    source: 'Signal range: 120 m in fog, 400 m in clear air.'
    target: 信号范围：雾中 120 米，无雾时 400 米。
  - id: system-quest-state
    source: '{state, select, updated {Quest updated} complete {Quest complete} other
      {Quest failed}}'
    target: '{state, select, updated {任务已更新} complete {任务已完成} other {任务失败}}'