/* cliff:source: 此開卷第一回也．作者自云：因曾歷過一番夢幻之后，故將真事隱去， 而借"通靈"之說，撰此《石頭記》一書也．故曰"甄士隱"云云．但書中所記 何事何人？自又云：“今風塵碌碌，一事無成，忽念及當日所有之女子，一 一細考較去，覺其行止見識，皆出于我之上．何我堂堂須眉，誠不若彼裙釵 哉？實愧則有余，悔又無益之大無可如何之日也！當此，則自欲將已往所賴 天恩祖德，錦衣紈褲之時，飫甘饜肥之日，背父兄教育之恩，負師友規談之 德，以至今日一技無成，半生潦倒之罪，編述一集，以告天下人：我之罪固 不免，然閨閣中本自歷歷有人，万不可因我之不肖，自護己短，一并使其泯 滅也．雖今日之茅椽蓬牖，瓦灶繩床，其晨夕風露，階柳庭花，亦未有妨我 之襟怀筆墨者．雖我未學，下筆無文，又何妨用假語村言，敷演出一段故事 來，亦可使閨閣昭傳，复可悅世之目，破人愁悶，不亦宜乎？"故曰"賈雨村 "云云． */
"chapter-1-001" = "This is the opening chapter of the book. The author speaks of himself: because he had once passed through a dream and an illusion, he therefore concealed the true facts and, borrowing the tale of the \"spirit's understanding,\" wrote this book, 《The Story of the Stone》. Hence the name \"Zhen Shiyin,\" and so forth. But what events and what persons does the book record? He speaks again of himself: “In this dusty, bustling world I have accomplished nothing at all; suddenly I call to mind all the girls of those days, and when I examine them one by one in careful detail, I feel that their conduct and understanding are all above my own. What then — I, a full-grown man with beard and brows, am I truly not the equal of those girls? In truth I have shame in abundance, but regret is of no use; there is nothing to be done on such a day as this! And so I want to set it all down: the times when I relied on Heaven's grace and my ancestors' virtue, the days of brocade clothes and silk trousers, of rich food and full bellies; my betrayal of the kindness of my father's and elder brothers' teaching; my breaking faith with the virtue of my teachers' and friends' reproof; and the guilt of having reached this day with not a single skill to my name and half a lifetime in failure — to compile it into a volume and tell it to the world: my own guilt I cannot, indeed, escape. Yet in the women's chambers there have always been outstanding people, and I must by no means, because of my own unworthiness, shield my own shortcomings and let them all be blotted out along with me. Though today my rafters are thatch and my window bramble, my stove of earthenware and my bed of rope, the wind and dew of morning and evening, the willows by the steps and the flowers in the court — none of them hinder my heart's feeling or my brush and ink. Though I am unlearned and my writing has no grace, what harm is there in using borrowed words and rustic speech to spin out a tale? It may make the women's chambers known to the world, and it may also gladden the eyes of the age and break men's gloom — is that not fitting?\" Hence the name \"Jia Yucun,\" and so forth.";
/* cliff:source: 此回中凡用“夢”用“幻”等字，是提醒閱者眼目，亦是此書立意本旨 ． */
"chapter-1-002" = "In this chapter, the use throughout of such words as “dream” and “illusion” is meant to rouse the reader's eyes, and it is also the fundamental purpose and theme of this book.";
/* cliff:source: 原來女媧氏煉石補天之時，于大荒山無稽崖練成高經十二丈，方經二十 四丈頑石三万六千五百零一塊．媧皇氏只用了三万六千五百塊，只單單剩了 一塊未用，便棄在此山青埂峰下．誰知此石自經段煉之后，靈性已通，因見 眾石俱得補天，獨自己無材不堪入選，遂自怨自歎，日夜悲號慚愧． */
"chapter-1-003" = "It came about that when Nüwa smelted stones to mend the heavens, on the Great Absurd Mountain, at the Cliff of the Unverifiable, she refined thirty-six thousand five hundred and one blocks of stubborn stone, each twelve zhang high and twenty-four zhang square. The Queen Nüwa used only thirty-six thousand five hundred of them, and just one single block was left over and unused, so it was cast away at the foot of Green Ridge Peak on that mountain. Who could have known that this stone, having been smelted and tempered, had already gained spiritual understanding? And so, seeing that all the other stones were found fit to mend the heavens while it alone, for want of any useful stuff, was unfit to be chosen, it began to grieve and sigh over itself, wailing and crying out day and night in shame.";
/* cliff:source: 空空道人遂向石頭說道：“石兄，你這一段故事，据你自己說有些趣味 ，故編寫在此，意欲問世傳奇．据我看來，第一件，無朝代年紀可考，第二 件，并無大賢大忠理朝廷治風俗的善政，其中只不過几個异樣女子，或情或 痴，或小才微善，亦無班姑，蔡女之德能．我縱抄去，恐世人不愛看呢。” 石頭笑答道：“我師何太痴耶！若云無朝代可考，今我師竟假借漢唐等年紀 添綴，又有何難？但我想，歷來野史，皆蹈一轍，莫如我這不借此套者，反 倒新奇別致，不過只取其事体情理罷了，又何必拘拘于朝代年紀哉！再者， 市井俗人喜看理治之書者甚少，愛适趣閒文者特多．歷來野史，或訕謗君相 ，或貶人妻女，奸淫凶惡，不可胜數．更有一种風月筆墨，其淫穢污臭，屠 毒筆墨，坏人子弟，又不可胜數．至若佳人才子等書，則又千部共出一套， 且其中終不能不涉于淫濫，以致滿紙潘安，子建，西子，文君，不過作者要 寫出自己的那兩首情詩艷賦來，故假擬出男女二人名姓，又必旁出一小人其 間撥亂，亦如劇中之小丑然．且鬟婢開口即者也之乎，非文即理．故逐一看 去，悉皆自相矛盾，大不近情理之話，竟不如我半世親睹親聞的這几個女子 ，雖不敢說強似前代書中所有之人，但事跡原委，亦可以消愁破悶，也有几 首歪詩熟話，可以噴飯供酒．至若离合悲歡，興衰際遇，則又追蹤躡跡，不 敢稍加穿鑿，徒為供人之目而反失其真傳者．今之人，貧者日為衣食所累， 富者又怀不足之心，縱然一時稍閒，又有貪淫戀色，好貨尋愁之事，那里去 有工夫看那理治之書？所以我這一段故事，也不愿世人稱奇道妙，也不定要 世人喜悅檢讀，只愿他們當那醉淫飽臥之時，或避世去愁之際，把此一玩， 豈不省了些壽命筋力？就比那謀虛逐妄，卻也省了口舌是非之害，腿腳奔忙 之．再者，亦令世人換新眼目，不比那些胡牽亂扯，忽离忽遇，滿紙才人 淑女，子建文君紅娘小玉等通共熟套之舊稿．我師意為何如？” */
"chapter-1-004" = "The Vanitas Daoist then said to the stone: “Brother Stone, this tale of yours — by your own account it has some interest, and so you wrote it down here, wishing to bring it before the world as a marvel. As I see it, in the first place, there is no dynasty or date by which it can be verified; in the second, it contains no great worthies or great loyal ministers whose good government ordered the court and reformed the customs — there are only a few odd girls, some passionate, some foolish, some of small talent and slight virtue, and none with the virtue and ability of a Ban Zhao or a Cai Yan. Even if I copied it out, I fear the world would not care to read it.” The stone laughed and replied: “How very foolish my master is! If you say there is no dynasty to verify it, my master need only borrow the reign-years of the Han or the Tang and tack them on — what difficulty is there in that? But I think that the unofficial histories of every age have all trodden in one rut; it is better that mine does not borrow their mould, for then it is all the more novel and distinctive. After all, it takes only the truth of the matter and its reasonableness — why must one be so bound by dynasty and date? And again, few of the common folk of the marketplace like to read books about government and order, while very many love writing that is agreeable and diverting. The unofficial histories of the past either slander rulers and ministers or belittle other men's wives and daughters; their lewdness and villainy are beyond counting. There is another kind besides, the writing of wind and moon, obscene and foul, murderous to the brush, corrupting the sons of good families — again beyond counting. As for the books of beauties and talented scholars, a thousand volumes all come out of one mould, and in them one can never quite avoid lewdness and excess, so that the pages are filled with Pan An and Cao Zijian, Xi Shi and Zhuo Wenjun — all because the author wants to show off his own two love poems and flowery rhapsodies, and so makes up the names of a man and a woman, and must besides bring in a petty man between them to stir up trouble, just like the clown in a play. And the maids and serving-girls, the moment they open their mouths, are all 'thee' and 'thou,' all letters and propriety. So, taking them one by one, they are all self-contradictory and utterly unreasonable — not nearly so good as these few girls whom I have seen and heard at first hand for half a lifetime. Though I dare not say that they surpass all the people in the books of former ages, the circumstances and their causes are enough to dispel sorrow and break melancholy; and there are a few doggerel verses and familiar sayings that can make one laugh aloud and serve for wine. As for the meetings and partings, joys and griefs, the rises and falls and turns of fortune, I have followed them step by step and not dared to add the slightest invention, merely to please men's eyes and so lose the true record. People nowadays — the poor are daily worn down by food and clothing, the rich again harbour hearts of discontent; and even if they have a moment of leisure, they have their lusts and lecheries, the love of goods and the pursuit of sorrows. Where would they find the time to read those books of government and order? So this tale of mine does not seek to have the world call it marvellous or wonderful, nor does it insist that the world read it with delight; I wish only that when they are drunk and sated and lie down, or when they are fleeing the world and its sorrows, they might take it up and play with it — would that not spare them some of their lifespan and strength? And compared with scheming after vanities and chasing after delusions, it would also spare them the harm of quarrels and gossip and the running about on their legs. Moreover, it may give the world new eyes, unlike those old manuscripts full of wild pulling and dragging, of meetings and partings at random, pages full of brilliant men and gentle ladies — Cao Zijian, Zhuo Wenjun, Hongniang, Xiaoyu, and all the rest of the well-worn old stuff. What does my master think of it?”";
/* cliff:source: 空空道人听如此說，思忖半晌，將《石頭記》再檢閱一遍，因見上面雖 有些指奸責佞貶惡誅邪之語，亦非傷時罵世之旨，及至君仁臣良父慈子孝， 凡倫常所關之處，皆是稱功頌德，眷眷無窮，實非別書之可比．雖其中大旨 談論，亦不過實錄其事，又非假擬妄稱，一味淫邀艷約，私訂偷盟之可比． 因毫不干涉時世，方從頭至尾抄錄回來，問世傳奇．從此空空道人因空見色 ，由色生情，傳情入色，自色悟空，遂易名為情僧，改《石頭記》為《情僧 錄》．東魯孔梅溪則題曰《風月寶鑒》．后因曹雪芹于悼紅軒中披閱十載， 增刪五次，纂成目錄，分出章回，則題曰《金陵十二釵》．并題一絕云： */
"chapter-1-005" = "When the Vanitas Daoist heard this, he pondered for a long while, then went through 《The Story of the Stone》 once more from beginning to end. He saw that although it contained some words pointing out villainy and reproving flattery, condemning evil and punishing wickedness, it was not intended to wound the times or curse the world; and that where it touched on the ruler's benevolence, the minister's goodness, the father's kindness, the son's filial piety — wherever the great bonds of human relations were concerned — it was all praise of merit and celebration of virtue, full of unending affection, truly beyond comparison with other books. Though its main substance is discussion, it is no more than a true record of events, and cannot be compared with false inventions and idle claims, or with nothing but lewd invitations and wanton assignations, secret pledges and stolen trysts. Since it had no bearing at all upon the times, he copied it out from beginning to end and brought it before the world as a marvel. From then on, the Vanitas Daoist, seeing form through emptiness, begetting feeling from form, transmitting feeling into form, and awakening from form to emptiness, changed his name to the Passionate Monk, and retitled 《The Story of the Stone》 as 《The Record of the Passionate Monk》. Kong Meixi of Eastern Lu, however, inscribed it as 《The Precious Mirror of Wind and Moon》. And afterwards, because Cao Xueqin, in the Studio of Mourning the Red, read it over for ten years, added and cut five times, compiled a table of contents and divided it into chapters and sections, he gave it the title 《The Twelve Beauties of Jinling》. And he also wrote a quatrain, which ran:";
/* cliff:source: 當日地陷東南，這東南一隅有處曰姑蘇，有城曰閶門者，最是紅塵中一 二等富貴風流之地．這閶門外有個十里街，街內有個仁清巷，巷內有個古廟 ，因地方窄狹，人皆呼作葫蘆廟．廟旁住著一家鄉宦，姓甄，名費，字士隱 ．嫡妻封氏，情性賢淑，深明禮義．家中雖不甚富貴，然本地便也推他為望 族了．因這甄士隱稟性恬淡，不以功名為念，每日只以觀花修竹，酌酒吟詩 為樂，倒是神仙一流人品．只是一件不足：如今年已半百，膝下無儿，只有 一女，乳名喚作英蓮，年方三歲． */
"chapter-1-006" = "In those days the earth sank away in the southeast, and in that southeastern corner there was a place called Gusu, and in it a city gate called Changmen, which was of the first or second rank of all the places of wealth and fashion within the red dust. Outside Changmen there was a Ten-Li Street; within the street there was a Benevolence-and-Purity Lane; and in the lane there was an old temple which, because the place was cramped and narrow, everyone called the Gourd Temple. Beside the temple lived a family of country gentry, surnamed Zhen, given name Fei, courtesy name Shiyin. His wife of the first degree was of the Feng family, a woman of virtuous and gentle nature, deeply versed in the proprieties. Though the household was not especially wealthy or noble, the locality nonetheless reckoned it a family of standing. Because this Zhen Shiyin was by nature calm and indifferent, giving no thought to fame and office, and took his daily pleasure only in looking at flowers and tending bamboo, in pouring wine and chanting poems, he was in truth a man of the immortal kind. There was only one thing lacking: he was now past fifty, with no son at his knee; there was only one daughter, whose milk-name was Yinglian, just three years old.";
/* cliff:source: 一日，炎夏永晝，士隱于書房閒坐，至手倦拋書，伏几少憩，不覺朦朧 睡去．夢至一處，不辨是何地方．忽見那廂來了一僧一道，且行且談．只听 道人問道：“你攜了這蠢物，意欲何往？"那僧笑道：“你放心，如今現有 一段風流公案正該了結，這一干風流冤家，尚未投胎入世．趁此机會，就將 此蠢物夾帶于中，使他去經歷經歷。”那道人道：“原來近日風流冤孽又將 造劫歷世去不成？但不知落于何方何處？"那僧笑道：“此事說來好笑，竟 是千古未聞的罕事．只因西方靈河岸上三生石畔，有絳珠草一株，時有赤瑕 宮神瑛侍者，日以甘露灌溉，這絳珠草始得久延歲月．后來既受天地精華， 复得雨露滋養，遂得脫卻草胎木質，得換人形，僅修成個女体，終日游于离 恨天外，饑則食蜜青果為膳，渴則飲灌愁海水為湯．只因尚未酬報灌溉之德 ，故其五內便郁結著一段纏綿不盡之意．恰近日這神瑛侍者凡心偶熾，乘此 昌明太平朝世，意欲下凡造歷幻緣，已在警幻仙子案前挂了號．警幻亦曾問 及，灌溉之情未償，趁此倒可了結的．那絳珠仙子道：`他是甘露之惠，我 并無此水可還．他既下世為人，我也去下世為人，但把我一生所有的眼淚還 他，也償還得過他了．'因此一事，就勾出多少風流冤家來，陪他們去了結 此案。”那道人道：“果是罕聞．實未聞有還淚之說．想來這一段故事，比 歷來風月事故更加瑣碎細膩了。”那僧道：“歷來几個風流人物，不過傳其 大概以及詩詞篇章而已，至家庭閨閣中一飲一食，總未述記．再者，大半風 月故事，不過偷香竊玉，暗約私奔而已，并不曾將儿女之真情發泄一二．想 這一干人入世，其情痴色鬼，賢愚不肖者，悉与前人傳述不同矣。”那道人 道：“趁此何不你我也去下世度脫几個，豈不是一場功德？"那僧道：“正 合吾意，你且同我到警幻仙子宮中，將蠢物交割清楚，待這一干風流孽鬼下 世已完，你我再去．如今雖已有一半落塵，然猶未全集。”道人道：“既如 此，便隨你去來。” */
"chapter-1-007" = "One day, in the long daylight of midsummer, Shiyin was sitting idly in his study until, his hand grown weary, he threw down his book and leaned upon the table for a little rest, and before he knew it had drifted into a dim sleep. He dreamed that he had come to a place, and could not tell what place it was. Suddenly he saw coming from that side a monk and a Daoist, walking and talking together. He heard the Daoist ask: “What do you mean to do with that stupid thing you are carrying?\" The monk laughed and said: “Set your mind at rest. There is at present a case of love that ought to be brought to a close, and these amorous debtors have not yet been reborn into the world. Seizing this opportunity, I shall slip this stupid thing in among them and let it go through the experience for itself.” The Daoist said: “So the amorous debts of late are to go down into the world and bring about a calamity again? But I do not know where they will come to earth.” The monk laughed and said: “It is laughable to tell, for it is the rarest thing unheard of in all the ages. On the bank of the Spirit River in the West, beside the Stone of Three Lives, there is a plant of Vermilion Pearl. Now there was an attendant of the Crimson Jade Palace, the Divine Jade Attendant, who every day watered it with sweet dew, and so the Vermilion Pearl Plant was able to live on through the years. In time, having received the essence of Heaven and Earth and been nourished further by rain and dew, it was able to shed its herbaceous body and woody substance and take on human form; but it could only achieve the shape of a girl. All day she wandered beyond the Heaven of Parting Sorrow; when hungry she ate sweet green fruit for her food, and when thirsty she drank the water of the Sea of Sorrow for her soup. Only because she had not yet repaid the kindness of the watering did a tangled, unending longing gather and knot within her heart. And now it happens that the Divine Jade Attendant's earthly heart has suddenly been kindled, and taking advantage of this bright and peaceful age he wishes to descend into the world and go through the illusion of destiny; he has already put his name down before the Fairy of Disenchantment. The Fairy of Disenchantment too has asked about it, saying that the debt of the watering has not been repaid and that this would be a good chance to settle it. Then the Vermilion Pearl Fairy said: `He gave me the grace of sweet dew, but I have no such water to repay him with. Since he is to descend into the world as a man, I too will descend into the world as a man; and if I repay him with all the tears of my whole life, that will be repayment enough.' And from this one matter how many amorous debtors have been drawn out to accompany them and bring the case to a close.” The Daoist said: “This is indeed rarely heard. I have truly never heard of a tale of repaying tears. I suppose this story is more minute and delicate than any tale of wind and moon there has ever been.” The monk said: “Of the amorous figures of the past, only the general outline has been handed down, along with a few poems and passages; as to every drink and every meal in their households and inner chambers, none of it was ever recorded. Moreover, most tales of wind and moon are no more than the stealing of fragrance and the filching of jade, secret assignations and elopements in the dark, and never once give vent to a single part of the true feelings of young men and women. I think that when these people come into the world, their passionate fools, their lechers, their worthy and their foolish and their unworthy, will all be quite different from what former men have told.” The Daoist said: “Since that is so, why do not you and I also go down into the world and save a few souls — would that not be a work of merit?\" The monk said: “That is just my own wish. Come with me first to the palace of the Fairy of Disenchantment and hand over the stupid thing clearly; when these amorous sprites have all been reborn, you and I will go too. Though half of them have already fallen into the dust, they are not yet all assembled.” The Daoist said: “Since it is so, I will go with you.”";
/* cliff:source: 卻說甄士隱俱听得明白，但不知所云"蠢物"系何東西．遂不禁上前施禮 ，笑問道：“二仙師請了。”那僧道也忙答禮相問．士隱因說道：“适聞仙 師所談因果，實人世罕聞者．但弟子愚濁，不能洞悉明白，若蒙大開痴頑， 備細一聞，弟子則洗耳諦听，稍能警省，亦可免沉倫之苦。”二仙笑道：“ 此乃玄机不可預泄者．到那時不要忘我二人，便可跳出火坑矣。”士隱听了 ，不便再問．因笑道：“玄机不可預泄，但适云`蠢物'，不知為何，或可一 見否？"那僧道：“若問此物，倒有一面之緣。”說著，取出遞与士隱．士 隱接了看時，原來是塊鮮明美玉，上面字跡分明，鐫著"通靈寶玉"四字，后 面還有几行小字．正欲細看時，那僧便說已到幻境，便強從手中奪了去，与 道人竟過一大石牌坊，上書四個大字，乃是"太虛幻境"．兩邊又有一幅對聯 ，道是： */
"chapter-1-008" = "Now, Zhen Shiyin had heard everything clearly, but he did not know what the \"stupid thing\" they spoke of could be. So he could not refrain from stepping forward and saluting, and asked with a smile: “Greetings, my two immortal masters.” The monk too made haste to return the salute in greeting. Shiyin then said: “I have just heard the masters speak of cause and effect, such as is rarely heard in the world of men. But your disciple is dull and muddy and cannot fathom it clearly. If you would be so good as to open wide my foolish understanding and let me hear it all in detail, I will wash my ears and listen attentively; and if I can gain the least awakening, I may also escape the suffering of sinking into perdition.” The two immortals laughed and said: “This is a hidden mechanism that must not be revealed in advance. When that time comes, if you do not forget the two of us, you may leap out of the pit of fire.” When Shiyin heard this, he did not press further. He said with a smile: “The hidden mechanism may not be revealed in advance; but you spoke just now of a `stupid thing,' and I do not know what it is — might I perhaps see it?\" The monk said: “As for that thing, you do have a one-sided destiny with it.” So saying, he took it out and handed it to Shiyin. Shiyin took it and looked: it was a piece of bright, lustrous fine jade, on which the characters were clearly cut, engraved with the four words \"Precious Jade of the Spirit's Understanding,\" and behind there were several lines of small characters. Just as he was about to look closely, the monk said that they had arrived at the realm of illusion, and snatched it forcibly from his hand, and with the Daoist passed straight through a great stone archway inscribed with four large characters: \"Illusion of the Great Void.\" On either side there was also a couplet, which read:";
/* cliff:source: 這士隱正痴想，忽見隔壁葫蘆廟內寄居的一個窮儒-姓賈名化，表字時 飛，別號雨行者走了出來．這賈雨村原系胡州人氏，也是詩書仕宦之族，因 他生于末世，父母祖宗根基已盡，人口衰喪，只剩得他一身一口，在家鄉無 益，因進京求取功名，再整基業．自前歲來此，又淹蹇住了，暫寄廟中安身 ，每日賣字作文為生，故士隱常与他交接．當下雨村見了士隱，忙施禮陪笑 道：“老先生倚門佇望，敢是街市上有甚新聞否？"士隱笑道：“非也．适 因小女啼哭，引他出來作耍，正是無聊之甚，兄來得正妙，請入小齋一談， 彼此皆可消此永晝。”說著，便令人送女儿進去，自与雨村攜手來至書房中 ．小童獻茶．方談得三五句話，忽家人飛報：“嚴老爺來拜。”士隱慌的忙 起身謝罪道：“恕誑駕之罪，略坐，弟即來陪。”雨村忙起身亦讓道：“老 先生請便．晚生乃常造之客，稍候何妨。”說著，士隱已出前廳去了． */
"chapter-1-009" = "While Shiyin was thus lost in foolish musing, he suddenly saw, coming out from the Gourd Temple next door, a poor scholar who lodged there — surnamed Jia, named Hua, styled Shifei, with the by-name Yucun. This Jia Yucun was originally a man of Huzhou, and of a family of scholars and officials; but because he was born in a declining age, the foundations of his parents and ancestors were already exhausted, the household had dwindled away, and he alone was left, one body and one mouth. Having no prospects in his native place, he had come to the capital to seek fame and office and to rebuild the family fortunes. Since coming here the year before, however, he had again been held back by misfortune and was lodging for the time being in the temple to shelter himself, making his living day by day by selling his calligraphy and writing essays. Hence Shiyin often had dealings with him. On this day Yucun saw Shiyin and hastened to salute him with a smiling face, saying: “You stand leaning at the gate and gazing far, sir — can it be that there is some news in the market street?\" Shiyin laughed and said: “Not so. Just now my little daughter was crying, and I brought her out here to play; it was really that I was exceedingly bored. You have come at a most opportune moment, brother. Pray come into my little study and we will talk; we can both of us while away this long day.” So saying, he had his daughter sent back inside, and taking Yucun's hand he led him to the study. A young servant offered tea. They had talked only three or five sentences when suddenly a servant came flying in to report: “Master Yan has come to pay a call.” Shiyin, in a fluster, rose at once and begged pardon, saying: “Forgive the crime of deceiving your presence; sit a little while, and I will come to keep you company.” Yucun too rose at once and said, declining: “Pray do as you please, sir. I am a frequent guest; waiting a while is no matter.” As he spoke, Shiyin had already gone out to the front hall.";
/* cliff:source: 一日，早又中秋佳節．士隱家宴已畢，乃又另具一席于書房，卻自己步 月至廟中來邀雨村．原來雨村自那日見了甄家之婢曾回顧他兩次，自為是個 知己，便時刻放在心上．今又正值中秋，不免對月有怀，因而口占五言一律 云： */
"chapter-1-010" = "One day, the Mid-Autumn Festival had come round again. When the family banquet at Shiyin's house was over, he had another table laid in the study, and himself walked by moonlight to the temple to invite Yucun. Now Yucun, ever since the day he had seen the maid of the Zhen household turn and look back at him twice, had considered her a true friend and kept her constantly in his thoughts. And now that it was once more Mid-Autumn, he could not but feel stirred as he faced the moon, and so he composed offhand a regulated verse in five-character lines, saying:";
/* cliff:source: 蟾光如有意，先上玉人樓．雨村吟罷，因又思及平生抱負，苦未逢時， 乃又搔首對天長歎，复高吟一聯曰： */
"chapter-1-011" = "If the toad's light has any feeling in it, let it first climb the tower of the jade beauty. When Yucun had finished chanting this, he thought again of the ambitions of his life and his bitterness at never having met his time, and so once more he scratched his head and sighed long at the heavens, and recited aloud another couplet, saying:";
/* cliff:source: 可巧這日拄了拐杖掙挫到街前散散心時，忽見那邊來了一個跛足道人， 瘋癲落脫，麻屣鶉衣，口內念著几句言詞，道是： */
"chapter-1-012" = "It so happened that on this day, leaning on a staff, he struggled as far as the street to take a little air, when he suddenly saw coming from that direction a lame-footed Daoist, wild and bedraggled, in hempen sandals and a coat as ragged as a quail's tail, muttering a few words aloud, which ran:";
/* cliff:source: 痴心父母古來多，孝順儿孫誰見了？士隱听了，便迎上來道：“你滿口 說些什么？只听見些`好'`了'`好'`了'．那道人笑道：“你若果听見`好'` 了'二字，還算你明白．可知世上万般，好便是了，了便是好．若不了，便 不好，若要好，須是了．我這歌儿，便名《好了歌》"士隱本是有宿慧的， 一聞此言，心中早已徹悟．因笑道：“且住！待我將你這《好了歌》解注出 來何如？"道人笑道：“你解，你解。”士隱乃說道： */
"chapter-1-013" = "Devoted parents have there always been; but dutiful sons and grandsons — who has ever seen them? When Shiyin heard this, he came forward to meet him and said: “What is it you are saying all over the place? I hear only `good' and `done,' `good' and `done.' The Daoist laughed and said: “If you truly hear the two words `good' and `done,' then you may still count as one who understands. You should know that of all things in the world, good is done, and done is good. If it is not done, then it is not good; if it is to be good, it must be done. This little song of mine is called 《The Song of Good and Done》.\" Shiyin had from birth a natural wisdom, and on hearing these words his heart was already wholly awakened. So he laughed and said: “Stay a moment! Let me write out a commentary on this 《Song of Good and Done》 of yours — what do you say?\" The Daoist laughed and said: “You write it, you write it.” Whereupon Shiyin said:";
/* cliff:source: 陋室空堂，當年笏滿床，衰草枯楊，曾為歌舞場．蛛絲儿結滿雕梁，綠 紗今又糊在蓬窗上．說什么脂正濃，粉正香，如何兩鬢又成霜？昨日黃土隴 頭送白骨，今宵紅燈帳底臥鴛鴦．金滿箱，銀滿箱，展眼乞丐人皆謗．正歎 他人命不長，那知自己歸來喪！訓有方，保不定日后作強梁．擇膏粱，誰承 望流落在煙花巷！因嫌紗帽小，致使鎖枷杠，昨怜破襖寒，今嫌紫蟒長：亂 烘烘你方唱罷我登場，反認他鄉是故鄉．甚荒唐，到頭來都是為他人作嫁衣 裳！那瘋跛道人听了，拍掌笑道：“解得切，解得切！"士隱便說一聲"走罷 ！"將道人肩上褡褳搶了過來背著，竟不回家，同了瘋道人飄飄而去．當下 烘動街坊，眾人當作一件新聞傳說．封氏聞得此信，哭個死去活來，只得与 父親商議，遣人各處訪尋，那討音信？無奈何，少不得依靠著他父母度日． 幸而身邊還有兩個舊日的丫鬟伏侍，主仆三人，日夜作些針線發賣，幫著父 親用度．那封肅雖然日日抱怨，也無可奈何了． */
"chapter-1-014" = "Mean rooms and empty halls, where once the court tablets filled the couch; withered grass and dead willows, where once the singing and dancing were. Spider webs now cover the carved beams, and green gauze is pasted over the bramble window. Say not that the rouge is thick and the powder sweet — how soon the hair at the temples turns to frost! Yesterday on the yellow earth mound they carried the white bones away; tonight beneath the red lantern, within the bed-curtain, lie the lovebirds. Gold fills the chest, silver fills the chest — in the twinkling of an eye a beggar whom all revile. You sigh that another's life is short — how do you know that your own return is death? With discipline and rules, who can be sure a son will not turn a bandit? Choose rich fare for a daughter, and who could expect her to fall into a house of flowers? Because a gauze cap seemed too small, one brings the cangue and the chains; yesterday one pitied the cold of a worn coat, today one complains that the purple python robe is too long: in the noisy hubbub, you have just finished singing and I come on stage, and one mistakes a foreign land for the native place. What folly! In the end it is all making wedding clothes for other people! When the mad, lame Daoist heard this, he clapped his hands and laughed, saying: “A fitting commentary, a fitting commentary!\" Then Shiyin said \"Let us go!\" and seizing the cloth bag from the Daoist's shoulder he slung it on his own back, and without going home at all he drifted away with the mad Daoist. At once the whole neighbourhood was in an uproar, and everyone made it the talk of the town as a piece of news. When Madam Feng heard this, she wept herself half dead, and could only consult with her father and send people everywhere to search; but what news did they get? There was nothing to be done, and she had no choice but to rely on her parents for her living. Fortunately there remained two old maids to wait on her, and mistress and servants, all three, plied their needlework day and night to sell, helping her father with the expenses. Though Feng Su grumbled every day, there was nothing he could do about it.";