{
  "chapter-1": {
    "chapter-1-001": "This is the opening chapter of the book. The author says of himself: having once passed through a dream of illusion, he concealed the true facts and, borrowing the tale of the \"spiritual stone,\" wrote this book, The Story of the Stone. Hence the name Zhen Shiyin, and so on. But what events and what persons does the book record? He says further: “Dusty and drudging in the world, having accomplished nothing, I suddenly recalled all the women of former days and weighed each of them one by one; their conduct and understanding seemed to me to surpass my own. Why should I, a full-grown man with beard and brows, truly be no match for those silken maids? Shame there is in plenty, and regret is of no use — what utterly hopeless days these are! At such a time I would myself set down in one collection the years of brocaded clothes and silk trousers, the days of rich and sweet fare, which I owed to Heaven's grace and my ancestors' virtue, my betrayal of the kindness of my father's and elder brothers' teaching and of the virtue of my teachers' and friends' counsel, and so on down to today, when I have mastered no single skill and have spent half a lifetime in ruin — to tell the world: my own guilt I cannot escape, yet in the women's chambers there have always been outstanding people, and on no account should my unworthiness, my shielding of my own shortcomings, cause them all to be blotted out. Though today my rafters are of thatch and my window of reed, my stove of tile and my bed of rope, still the wind and dew of morning and evening, the willows by the steps and the flowers in the court, in no way hinder my feelings or my brush. Though I am unlearned and my writing has no art, what harm is there in using feigned words and rustic speech to spin out a story? It may make the women's chambers known, and it may also please the eyes of the world and dispel men's gloom — is that not fitting?” Hence the name Jia Yucun, and so on.",
    "chapter-1-002": "Throughout this chapter, the use of such words as \"dream\" and \"illusion\" is meant to alert the reader's eye, and is also the fundamental purpose of this book.",
    "chapter-1-003": "Now when Nüwa melted stones to mend the sky, at the Great Waste Mountain and the Unfathomable Cliff she refined 36,501 stones, each twelve zhang high and twenty-four zhang square. The Goddess Nüwa used only 36,500 of them; just one was left over unused, and she cast it down at the foot of Blue Ridge Peak on that mountain. Who would have thought that after being refined, this stone had acquired spiritual understanding? Seeing that all the other stones were fit to mend the sky while it alone was of no use and unworthy of selection, it began to lament and sigh, crying and grieving day and night in shame.",
    "chapter-1-004": "The Daoist of Empty Emptiness then said to the stone: “Brother Stone, this story of yours — by your own account it has some interest, which is why it was written down here, in the hope of publishing it for the wonder of the world. As I see it, in the first place there is no dynasty or date to verify, and in the second place it contains no great worthies or loyal ministers governing a court or reforming morals; among it there are only a few unusual women — some passionate, some foolish, some of small talent and slight virtue — and none with the virtue or ability of Ban Gu's aunt or Cai Wenji. Even if I copy it and take it out, I fear the world will not care to read it.” The stone laughed and replied: “How very foolish my master is! If you say there is no dynasty to verify, then why should my master not simply borrow the reigns of Han or Tang and add them in — what difficulty would that be? But I think the histories and romances of old all tread one rut; better that mine does not borrow that mold — it is all the newer and more distinctive for it. I take only the truth of the matter and the reason within it, so what need to be so bound to dynasty and date? Moreover, among the common folk of the marketplace, those who like books about governing are few, while those who love pleasant and amusing tales are many. The romances of the past either slander rulers and ministers, or belittle another man's wife and daughters, with lewdness and cruelty too many to count. There is also a kind of writing of wind and moonlight, obscene and rank-stinking, poison for the brush, ruining young men, again beyond counting. As for books of beautiful ladies and gifted scholars, a thousand volumes all come from a single mold, and even in them there is in the end no avoiding licentiousness, so that the pages are full of Pan An, Zisheng, Xi Shi and Wenjun — the author merely wants to show off his own two love poems and flowery rhapsodies, and so invents for the purpose the names of a man and a woman, and must needs drag in a petty man to stir up trouble between them, just like the clown in a play. And maids and slave-girls open their mouths only in classical tags; if it is not bookish it is moralizing. So looking at each in turn, they are all self-contradictory and quite contrary to reason. Truly they cannot compare with these few women whom I have seen with my own eyes and heard with my own ears over half a lifetime; though I dare not say they are better than all the people in the books of former ages, their stories from beginning to end can still dispel sorrow and break gloom, and there are a few crude poems and familiar sayings in them fit to make one laugh over a meal or serve at a wine gathering. As for partings and meetings, joys and sorrows, rise and fall and chance encounter, these follow close in actual tracks, and I dare not add the least bit of embroidery, merely to please men's eyes and so lose the true record. People today — the poor are burdened daily by food and clothing, the rich nurse a heart that is never satisfied; even if for a moment they have leisure, there are again lust and lechery, greed for goods and the seeking of troubles — where would they find time to read books on government? So for this story of mine, I do not wish the world to call it strange or wonderful, nor do I insist that the world take pleasure in reading it; I only wish that when they are drunk with lust and lying sated, or when they flee the world and dispel their cares, they may take it up for amusement — will they not thereby save a little of their lifespan and strength? Compared with scheming after the vain and chasing the false, it also saves the harm of wagging tongues and quarrels and the labor of running about. Moreover, it lets the world renew its eyes, unlike those old manuscripts in which a talented man and a virtuous maid are pulled together at random, now parted, now met, their pages full of Zisheng, Wenjun, Hongniang, Xiaoyu and all the worn-out commonplaces. What does my master think of it?”",
    "chapter-1-005": "Hearing this, the Daoist of Empty Emptiness pondered for a long while, then went through The Story of the Stone once more. Though it contained words pointing out wickedness, rebuking flatterers, condemning evil and punishing depravity, it was not aimed at wounding the times or cursing the world; and where the ruler is benevolent, the minister good, the father kind and the son filial — wherever the ties of human morality are concerned — it is all praise of merit and extolling of virtue, endlessly devoted, truly beyond comparison with other books. Though its general purport and discourse is no more than a true record of events, and not feigned or falsely claimed, it can hardly be compared with those works that are all lewd invitations and wanton assignations, secret pledges and stolen trysts. Because it in no way touched on the times or the world, he copied it from beginning to end and took it out to publish for the wonder of the world. From then on the Daoist of Empty Emptiness, seeing form in emptiness and begetting passion from form, conveying passion into form and from form awakening to emptiness, changed his name to the Passionate Monk and renamed The Story of the Stone The Record of the Passionate Monk. Kong Meixi of East Lu titled it The Precious Mirror of Wind and Moon. Later, Cao Xueqin, in the Mourning-the-Red Studio, read it over for ten years, added and deleted five times, compiled a table of contents and divided it into chapters and sections, and titled it The Twelve Beauties of Jinling. He also inscribed a quatrain:",
    "chapter-1-006": "In those days, when the earth sank away in the southeast, in that southeastern corner there was a place called Gusu, and in it a city gate called Changmen, the very first or second rank of rich and fashionable ground amid the red dust. Outside Changmen there was a Ten-Li Street, and in the street a Lane of Benevolence and Purity, and in the lane an ancient temple. Because the place was cramped and narrow, people all called it the Gourd Temple. Beside the temple lived a country gentleman named Zhen, given name Fei, style Shiyin. His wife, of the Feng family, was virtuous and gentle in disposition, with a deep understanding of propriety and right. Though the household was not very rich or noble, the place nevertheless reckoned him a family of note. Because Zhen Shiyin was by nature tranquil and indifferent, caring nothing for rank or fame, his daily pleasure was to look at flowers and trim bamboos, to pour wine and chant poems — indeed, the character of an immortal. Only one thing was lacking: he was now past fifty, had no son at his knee, only one daughter, whose childhood name was Yinglian, just three years old.",
    "chapter-1-007": "One day, in the long daylight of a hot summer, Shiyin was sitting idly in his study; when his hand grew tired he threw down the book and dozed a little at his desk, and without knowing it fell into a dim sleep. He dreamed he came to a place, and could not tell where it was. Suddenly he saw a monk and a Daoist come from that direction, walking and talking as they came. He heard the Daoist ask: “Where are you taking this stupid thing?” The monk laughed and said: “Don't worry. There is now a case of love that ought to be settled; this crew of lovers and debtors have not yet been reborn into the world. Taking this chance, I will slip this stupid creature in among them and let it go and experience it all.” The Daoist said: “So of late the debt of love is going to make another kalpa and pass through the world? But where will it fall?” The monk laughed and said: “It is funny enough to tell — a rare thing, unheard of in a thousand ages. On the bank of the Spiritual River in the West, beside the Stone of Three Lives, there is a Crimson Pearl Grass. At that time a Servant of the Divine Jade in the Palace of Red Jade watered it daily with sweet dew, and the Crimson Pearl Grass was able to live on through long years. In the end, having received the essence of Heaven and Earth and the nourishment of rain and dew, it was able to shed its grass-and-wood form and take human shape — though it could only achieve the body of a girl. All day it wandered beyond the Heaven of Parting Sorrow; when hungry it ate honey-green fruit for its meal, and when thirsty it drank the water of the Sorrow-Infusing Sea for its soup. Only because it had not yet repaid the virtue of the watering, its heart was bound up with a mass of endless, lingering feeling. Just now this Servant of the Divine Jade happened to feel a passing stir of earthly desire, and taking this age of brightness and peace, wished to descend to the mortal world to go through the illusion of fate; he has already registered his name before the Fairy of Disenchantment. The Fairy of Disenchantment also asked about it — since the debt of watering had not been repaid, this was a good chance to settle it. Then the Crimson Pearl Fairy said: ‘It was a gift of sweet dew; I have no such water to return. Since he is going down to be born a man, I too will go down and be born a woman, and give him back in tears all the tears of my whole life — that should repay him well enough.’ From this one matter, how many lovers and debtors were drawn in to accompany them and settle the case.” The Daoist said: “Truly unheard of. I have never heard of a tale of returning tears. I suppose this story is even more petty and minute than the tales of love of former times.” The monk said: “Of the gallants of former times, only a rough outline was handed down, along with their poems and verses; as for every drink and every meal within the family and the women's apartments, it was never recorded. Moreover, most tales of love are no more than stolen fragrance and purloined jade, secret assignations and elopements, and never once let out a bit of the true feeling between boy and girl. I think when this crew are born into the world — the love-mad, the lechers, the worthy and the foolish, the good-for-nothing — they will all be unlike anything handed down by former men.” The Daoist said: “Why not take this chance and let you and me also go down into the world and deliver a few souls — would that not be a work of merit?” The monk said: “That suits my mind exactly. Come with me first to the palace of the Fairy of Disenchantment and hand over this stupid creature properly; when this crew of passionate ghosts of sin have all been born, we two will go again. Half of them have already fallen into the dust, but they are not all assembled yet.” The Daoist said: “Since that is so, let us go with you.”",
    "chapter-1-008": "Now Zhen Shiyin had heard it all clearly, but did not know what the “stupid thing” they spoke of might be. He could not help stepping forward and bowing, and asked with a smile: “Greetings, you two immortal masters.” The monk and the Daoist hastened to return the courtesy. Shiyin then said: “I have just heard the immortal masters speak of cause and effect, a thing rarely heard in the human world. But your disciple is dull and turbid and cannot grasp it clearly. If you would be so kind as to open wide my foolish stupidity and let me hear it in full detail, I will wash my ears and listen attentively; if I can be a little awakened, I may also escape the pain of sinking and drowning.” The two immortals laughed: “This is a hidden mystery that may not be revealed in advance. When that time comes, do not forget the two of us, and you will be able to leap out of the pit of fire.” Hearing this, Shiyin did not presume to ask further. So he smiled and said: “The mystery may not be revealed in advance, but you just spoke of a ‘stupid thing’ — I do not know what it is; might I perhaps see it?” The monk said: “As for that thing, you do have the fate to meet it once.” With that, he brought it out and handed it to Shiyin. Shiyin took it and looked: it was a bright and beautiful piece of jade, with clear writing on it, engraved with the four characters “Precious Jade of Spiritual Understanding,” and behind it a few lines of small characters. Just as he was about to look closely, the monk said they had arrived at the Realm of Illusion, and forcibly snatched it from his hand; with the Daoist he passed straight through a great stone archway inscribed with four large characters: “The Great Void Realm of Illusion.” On either side there was also a couplet, which read:",
    "chapter-1-009": "As Shiyin stood lost in foolish reverie, he suddenly saw a poor scholar come out who was lodging in the Gourd Temple next door — surnamed Jia, named Hua, style Shifei, nickname Yucun. This Jia Yucun was originally a man of Huzhou, of a family of letters and officialdom; because he was born in a declining age, the foundation of his parents and ancestors was exhausted, the family had dwindled and died away, leaving only him, one body and one mouth. Having no prospects in his native place, he went to the capital to seek fame and rebuild the family fortunes. He had come here the year before last and had been stranded again, lodging temporarily in the temple and selling his calligraphy and writing to make a living, and so Shiyin often had dealings with him. Now Yucun saw Shiyin and hurried to bow with a smile: “Old sir, leaning at the gate and gazing out — is there some news in the market street?” Shiyin laughed: “No. Just now my little daughter was crying, so I brought her out to play; I was indeed bored beyond words, and your coming is most timely. Please come into my little study and talk; we can both pass this long day.” With that he had his daughter sent inside and went hand in hand with Yucun to the study. A young servant offered tea. They had talked no more than three or five sentences when a servant came flying in to report: “Lord Yan has come to pay a call.” Shiyin rose in alarm and made his apologies: “Forgive me for deceiving your expectations; sit a moment and I will come back to keep you company.” Yucun also hurried to rise and said: “Pray do as you please, old sir. I am a frequent guest; waiting a little is no matter.” With that, Shiyin had already gone out to the front hall.",
    "chapter-1-010": "One day, early, it was again the Mid-Autumn Festival. Shiyin's family feast was over, and he laid out another table in his study, then himself walked over by moonlight to the temple to invite Yucun. Now Yucun, ever since the day he saw the Zhen family's maid look back at him twice, had taken her for a kindred spirit and kept her constantly in his heart. Now it was the Mid-Autumn again, and he could not but feel moved by the moon, so he improvised a five-character regulated verse:",
    "chapter-1-011": "If the moonlight has any meaning, let it first climb the jade maiden's tower. When Yucun had finished chanting, he thought again of his lifelong ambition and the bitterness of never meeting his time; he scratched his head, sighed long at the sky, and chanted another couplet aloud:",
    "chapter-1-012": "It happened one day that he struggled out with a staff to the street to divert himself, when he suddenly saw a lame Daoist come from the other direction, mad and slovenly, in straw sandals and a coat of quail's feathers, muttering a few phrases which went:",
    "chapter-1-013": "Fond-hearted parents there have always been in plenty; who ever saw a filial son or grandchild? Hearing this, Shiyin went up to him and said: “What are you muttering about, filling your mouth with talk? I heard only such words as ‘good’ and ‘done.’” The Daoist laughed: “If you truly heard the words ‘good’ and ‘done,’ then you may count yourself clear-sighted. Know that of all things in the world, good is done, and done is good. If it is not done, it is not good; if you would have it good, you must have it done. This song of mine is called The Song of Good and Done.” Shiyin was by nature possessed of innate wisdom; at these words his heart was at once wholly awakened. So he smiled and said: “Wait! Let me annotate your Song of Good and Done for you, how would that be?” The Daoist laughed: “Annotate it, annotate it.” Then Shiyin said:",
    "chapter-1-014": "Mean rooms and empty halls, where once the court tablets filled the bed; withered grass and dead willows, where once there was a stage for song and dance. Spider webs hang thick on the carved beams, and green gauze is pasted over the bramble window. What use to say the rouge is still rich and the powder still fragrant, when the hair at both temples has turned to frost? Yesterday on the yellow earth's mound they bore away white bones; tonight beneath the red lamp within the bed lie mandarin ducks. Gold fills the chest, silver fills the chest; in the blink of an eye a beggar is reviled by all. You sigh that another's life is short, not knowing that you yourself come home to die! Teaching may be right, yet no one can be sure the son will not turn a brigand; fine grain and rich fare may be chosen, who would have expected to end in a lane of flowers and song! Because a gauze cap seemed too small, one comes to wear the cangue and the chain; yesterday one pitied the cold of a torn coat, today one complains the purple python is too long. In noisy confusion, no sooner have you finished singing than I come on stage, and a foreign land is taken for home. How absurd! In the end it is all to make bridal clothes for other people! When the mad lame Daoist heard this, he clapped his hands and laughed: “A fitting interpretation, a fitting interpretation!” Then Shiyin said, “Let us go!” He seized the pilgrim's wallet from the Daoist's shoulder and slung it on his own back, and without even going home, he drifted away with the mad Daoist. At once the neighborhood was stirred, and everyone told it about as a piece of news. When Shiyin's wife, of the Feng family, heard of it, she cried herself half dead and back to life, and could only consult her father and send people everywhere to search — but what news was to be found? There was nothing for it; she must perforce rely on her parents to live. Fortunately she still had two old maidservants to wait on her, and the three of them, mistress and servants, sewed and stitched day and night to sell, helping out her father's expenses. Though Feng Su grumbled every day, there was nothing he could do."
  }
}