header:
  namespace: clarion
  clan: hongloumeng-joly
  source-language: zh-CN
  target-language: en-US
groups:
- path: chapter-1
  entries:
  - id: chapter-1-001
    source: 此開卷第一回也．作者自云：因曾歷過一番夢幻之后，故將真事隱去， 而借"通靈"之說，撰此《石頭記》一書也．故曰"甄士隱"云云．但書中所記 何事何人？自又云：“今風塵碌碌，一事無成，忽念及當日所有之女子，一
      一細考較去，覺其行止見識，皆出于我之上．何我堂堂須眉，誠不若彼裙釵 哉？實愧則有余，悔又無益之大無可如何之日也！當此，則自欲將已往所賴 天恩祖德，錦衣紈褲之時，飫甘饜肥之日，背父兄教育之恩，負師友規談之
      德，以至今日一技無成，半生潦倒之罪，編述一集，以告天下人：我之罪固 不免，然閨閣中本自歷歷有人，万不可因我之不肖，自護己短，一并使其泯 滅也．雖今日之茅椽蓬牖，瓦灶繩床，其晨夕風露，階柳庭花，亦未有妨我
      之襟怀筆墨者．雖我未學，下筆無文，又何妨用假語村言，敷演出一段故事 來，亦可使閨閣昭傳，复可悅世之目，破人愁悶，不亦宜乎？"故曰"賈雨村 "云云．
    target: >-
      This is the opening chapter of the book. The author says: having passed through a dreamlike illusion, he hides the true events and borrows the tale of the "spiritual stone" to write this book called The Story of the Stone. Hence the name "Zhen Shiyin" [homophone for "true matters hidden"]. But what events and persons are recorded in the book? He also says: "Now, in the dusty world, having accomplished nothing, I suddenly recall all the girls of those days, and examining them one by one, I find their conduct and understanding superior to mine. How is it that I, a man, am truly not equal to those women? I am indeed ashamed, but regret is useless on a day when there is no help for it. At this point, I wish to recount the days when I relied on heavenly grace and ancestral virtue, wore brocade and silk, ate fine food, betrayed the teaching of father and elder brothers, failed the moral counsel of teachers and friends, and so to this day have no skill and half a life in failure—to compile a volume to tell the world: my guilt is indeed unavoidable, but in the women's chambers there have always been many notable people; I must not, because of my unworthiness, shield my own faults and let them all be extinguished. Though today I have thatched eaves and a reed window, a tile stove and a rope bed, the morning and evening wind and dew, the willows by the steps and flowers in the court, do not hinder my heart and brush. Though I am unlearned and my writing lacks elegance, what harm is there in using fictitious rustic words to unfold a story? It may also make the women's chambers known, and please the eyes of the world, dispel people's sorrow—is it not fitting?" Hence the name "Jia Yucun" [homophone for "fictitious rustic words"].
  - id: chapter-1-002
    source: 此回中凡用“夢”用“幻”等字，是提醒閱者眼目，亦是此書立意本旨 ．
    target: >-
      In this chapter, the use of such words as "dream" and "illusion" is meant to alert the reader's eyes; it is also the book's underlying intent.
  - id: chapter-1-003
    source: 原來女媧氏煉石補天之時，于大荒山無稽崖練成高經十二丈，方經二十 四丈頑石三万六千五百零一塊．媧皇氏只用了三万六千五百塊，只單單剩了 一塊未用，便棄在此山青埂峰下．誰知此石自經段煉之后，靈性已通，因見
      眾石俱得補天，獨自己無材不堪入選，遂自怨自歎，日夜悲號慚愧．
    target: >-
      When Nüwa was smelting stones to mend the sky, she smelted at the Great Fable Mountain, on the Unverifiable Cliff, 36,501 stubborn stones, each 12 zhang high and 24 zhang square. Nüwa used only 36,500 of them; just one was left unused, and she cast it down at the foot of Blue Ridge Peak on that mountain. Who would have thought that after this stone had been smelted, it had gained spiritual understanding? Seeing all the other stones had been chosen to mend the sky, while it alone was unfit and rejected, it began to resent and sigh, grieving and ashamed day and night.
  - id: chapter-1-004
    source: 空空道人遂向石頭說道：“石兄，你這一段故事，据你自己說有些趣味 ，故編寫在此，意欲問世傳奇．据我看來，第一件，無朝代年紀可考，第二 件，并無大賢大忠理朝廷治風俗的善政，其中只不過几個异樣女子，或情或
      痴，或小才微善，亦無班姑，蔡女之德能．我縱抄去，恐世人不愛看呢。” 石頭笑答道：“我師何太痴耶！若云無朝代可考，今我師竟假借漢唐等年紀 添綴，又有何難？但我想，歷來野史，皆蹈一轍，莫如我這不借此套者，反
      倒新奇別致，不過只取其事体情理罷了，又何必拘拘于朝代年紀哉！再者， 市井俗人喜看理治之書者甚少，愛适趣閒文者特多．歷來野史，或訕謗君相 ，或貶人妻女，奸淫凶惡，不可胜數．更有一种風月筆墨，其淫穢污臭，屠
      毒筆墨，坏人子弟，又不可胜數．至若佳人才子等書，則又千部共出一套， 且其中終不能不涉于淫濫，以致滿紙潘安，子建，西子，文君，不過作者要 寫出自己的那兩首情詩艷賦來，故假擬出男女二人名姓，又必旁出一小人其
      間撥亂，亦如劇中之小丑然．且鬟婢開口即者也之乎，非文即理．故逐一看 去，悉皆自相矛盾，大不近情理之話，竟不如我半世親睹親聞的這几個女子 ，雖不敢說強似前代書中所有之人，但事跡原委，亦可以消愁破悶，也有几
      首歪詩熟話，可以噴飯供酒．至若离合悲歡，興衰際遇，則又追蹤躡跡，不 敢稍加穿鑿，徒為供人之目而反失其真傳者．今之人，貧者日為衣食所累， 富者又怀不足之心，縱然一時稍閒，又有貪淫戀色，好貨尋愁之事，那里去
      有工夫看那理治之書？所以我這一段故事，也不愿世人稱奇道妙，也不定要 世人喜悅檢讀，只愿他們當那醉淫飽臥之時，或避世去愁之際，把此一玩， 豈不省了些壽命筋力？就比那謀虛逐妄，卻也省了口舌是非之害，腿腳奔忙
      之．再者，亦令世人換新眼目，不比那些胡牽亂扯，忽离忽遇，滿紙才人 淑女，子建文君紅娘小玉等通共熟套之舊稿．我師意為何如？”
    target: >-
      The Daoist of Empty Space then said to the Stone: "Brother Stone, by your own account this story of yours has some interest, so it was written down here, intending to be a marvel told to the world. In my view, first, there is no dynasty or date to verify; second, there are no great sages or loyal ministers governing the court and reforming customs, no good government. Among them are only a few unusual women, some passionate, some foolish, some with small talents and slight virtues, and none with the virtue and ability of Ban Gu's aunt or Cai Wenji. Even if I copy it and take it, I fear the world will not love to read it." The Stone laughed and replied: "Master, how foolish you are! If you say there is no dynasty to verify, and you borrow Han or Tang dates to add, what difficulty is there? But I think all the old unofficial histories follow the same rut. Better mine, which does not borrow this mold—it is instead novel and distinctive. It merely takes the essential nature and reason of events; why must it be bound to dynasty and date? Moreover, among townspeople and common folk, few like to read books on governance; many more love amusing and idle writing. Old unofficial histories either slander rulers and ministers, or degrade other men's wives and daughters; their lewdness and violence are too many to count. There is another kind of romantic writing, obscene and foul, poisonous to the young, also too many to count. As for books of beauties and talents, a thousand volumes all come from one pattern, and they inevitably touch on lewdness, so that the page is filled with Pan An, Cao Zijian, Xi Shi, Zhuo Wenjun—merely because the author wants to display his own two love poems and amorous rhapsodies, he invents the names of a man and woman, and must bring in a petty villain to stir trouble, like a clown in a play. And the maids, as soon as they open their mouths, speak in classical phrases, always literary or moral. Looked at one by one, all are self-contradictory, far from plausible. They are not equal to these few women I have seen and heard with my own eyes in half a lifetime. I dare not say they surpass all people in former books, but their deeds and their reasons can dispel sorrow and break boredom, and there are a few doggerel verses and familiar sayings that can make one laugh and drink. As for partings and reunions, joys and sorrows, rises and falls, I have followed their traces, not daring to add any fabrication, merely to please people's eyes and lose the true record. People today—the poor are daily burdened by food and clothing; the rich harbor discontent. Even if for a moment they are at leisure, they have greed for lust, love of goods, or seeking of sorrow. Where would they find time to read books on governance? So I do not wish the world to call this story strange or wonderful, nor do I insist that they delight in reading it; I only wish that when they are drunk with lust and lying full, or when avoiding the world and fleeing sorrow, they might take it up for amusement—would it not save them some life and strength? Compared with scheming after falsehood and chasing delusions, it also saves the harm of gossip and quarrels, and the bustle of running about. Moreover, it may give the world new eyes, unlike those old manuscripts that pull things at random, part and meet suddenly, full of talents and ladies, Cao Zijian, Zhuo Wenjun, Hongniang, Xiaoyu, and all the common clichés. What does my master think?"
  - id: chapter-1-005
    source: 空空道人听如此說，思忖半晌，將《石頭記》再檢閱一遍，因見上面雖 有些指奸責佞貶惡誅邪之語，亦非傷時罵世之旨，及至君仁臣良父慈子孝， 凡倫常所關之處，皆是稱功頌德，眷眷無窮，實非別書之可比．雖其中大旨
      談論，亦不過實錄其事，又非假擬妄稱，一味淫邀艷約，私訂偷盟之可比． 因毫不干涉時世，方從頭至尾抄錄回來，問世傳奇．從此空空道人因空見色 ，由色生情，傳情入色，自色悟空，遂易名為情僧，改《石頭記》為《情僧
      錄》．東魯孔梅溪則題曰《風月寶鑒》．后因曹雪芹于悼紅軒中披閱十載， 增刪五次，纂成目錄，分出章回，則題曰《金陵十二釵》．并題一絕云：
    target: >-
      When the Daoist of Empty Space heard this, he thought for a long while, then examined The Story of the Stone once more. Though it contained words pointing out treachery, condemning flattery, denouncing evil and punishing wickedness, it did not aim to wound the times or revile the world. When it came to rulers being benevolent, ministers loyal, fathers kind, sons filial—wherever human relations were involved—it praised merit and extolled virtue, with endless affection, truly incomparable to other books. Though its main discourse was nothing more than a true record of events, not false invention or reckless assertion, nor like the writing of lewd invitations and amorous appointments, secret pledges and stolen vows. Because it did not interfere with the times at all, he copied it from beginning to end and took it back, to be a marvel told to the world. From then on, the Daoist of Empty Space, seeing form through emptiness, produced emotion from form, transmitted emotion into form, and awakened to emptiness from form, changed his name to the Monk of Emotion, and renamed The Story of the Stone as The Record of the Monk of Emotion. Kong Meixi of Eastern Lu titled it The Precious Mirror of Wind and Moon. Later, because Cao Xueqin in the Mourning Red Studio read it over for ten years, added and deleted five times, compiled a table of contents, and divided it into chapters and sections, he titled it The Twelve Beauties of Jinling. He also wrote a quatrain:
  - id: chapter-1-006
    source: 當日地陷東南，這東南一隅有處曰姑蘇，有城曰閶門者，最是紅塵中一 二等富貴風流之地．這閶門外有個十里街，街內有個仁清巷，巷內有個古廟 ，因地方窄狹，人皆呼作葫蘆廟．廟旁住著一家鄉宦，姓甄，名費，字士隱
      ．嫡妻封氏，情性賢淑，深明禮義．家中雖不甚富貴，然本地便也推他為望 族了．因這甄士隱稟性恬淡，不以功名為念，每日只以觀花修竹，酌酒吟詩 為樂，倒是神仙一流人品．只是一件不足：如今年已半百，膝下無儿，只有
      一女，乳名喚作英蓮，年方三歲．
    target: >-
      In those days, when the earth sank in the southeast, in that southeastern corner there was a place called Gusu, and a city gate called Changmen, which was foremost among the rich, noble and fashionable places of the dusty world. Outside Changmen there was Ten-Mile Street; in the street was Renqing Lane; in the lane was an old temple. Because the place was narrow and cramped, people called it the Gourd Temple. Beside the temple lived a country official named Zhen Fei, courtesy name Shiyin. His principal wife was of the Feng family, virtuous and kind, deeply understanding propriety and righteousness. Though the household was not very rich or noble, the local people considered them a prominent clan. Zhen Shiyin was by nature tranquil and indifferent, not thinking of fame or profit. Every day he took pleasure in viewing flowers, cultivating bamboo, pouring wine and chanting poems—truly a character of immortal sort. Only one thing was lacking: he was now past fifty, had no son, and only one daughter, whose childhood name was Yinglian, just three years old.
  - id: chapter-1-007
    source: 一日，炎夏永晝，士隱于書房閒坐，至手倦拋書，伏几少憩，不覺朦朧 睡去．夢至一處，不辨是何地方．忽見那廂來了一僧一道，且行且談．只听 道人問道：“你攜了這蠢物，意欲何往？"那僧笑道：“你放心，如今現有
      一段風流公案正該了結，這一干風流冤家，尚未投胎入世．趁此机會，就將 此蠢物夾帶于中，使他去經歷經歷。”那道人道：“原來近日風流冤孽又將 造劫歷世去不成？但不知落于何方何處？"那僧笑道：“此事說來好笑，竟
      是千古未聞的罕事．只因西方靈河岸上三生石畔，有絳珠草一株，時有赤瑕 宮神瑛侍者，日以甘露灌溉，這絳珠草始得久延歲月．后來既受天地精華， 复得雨露滋養，遂得脫卻草胎木質，得換人形，僅修成個女体，終日游于离
      恨天外，饑則食蜜青果為膳，渴則飲灌愁海水為湯．只因尚未酬報灌溉之德 ，故其五內便郁結著一段纏綿不盡之意．恰近日這神瑛侍者凡心偶熾，乘此 昌明太平朝世，意欲下凡造歷幻緣，已在警幻仙子案前挂了號．警幻亦曾問
      及，灌溉之情未償，趁此倒可了結的．那絳珠仙子道：`他是甘露之惠，我 并無此水可還．他既下世為人，我也去下世為人，但把我一生所有的眼淚還 他，也償還得過他了．'因此一事，就勾出多少風流冤家來，陪他們去了結
      此案。”那道人道：“果是罕聞．實未聞有還淚之說．想來這一段故事，比 歷來風月事故更加瑣碎細膩了。”那僧道：“歷來几個風流人物，不過傳其 大概以及詩詞篇章而已，至家庭閨閣中一飲一食，總未述記．再者，大半風
      月故事，不過偷香竊玉，暗約私奔而已，并不曾將儿女之真情發泄一二．想 這一干人入世，其情痴色鬼，賢愚不肖者，悉与前人傳述不同矣。”那道人 道：“趁此何不你我也去下世度脫几個，豈不是一場功德？"那僧道：“正
      合吾意，你且同我到警幻仙子宮中，將蠢物交割清楚，待這一干風流孽鬼下 世已完，你我再去．如今雖已有一半落塵，然猶未全集。”道人道：“既如 此，便隨你去來。”
    target: >-
      One day, in the long hours of a hot summer, Shiyin was sitting idly in his study. When his hand grew tired he threw down his book and rested his head on the desk for a little, and before he knew it he fell into a drowsy sleep. He dreamed he arrived at a place and could not tell where it was. Suddenly he saw a monk and a Daoist coming from that side, walking and talking. He heard the Daoist ask: "You are carrying that foolish thing—where do you intend to go?" The monk laughed and said: "Set your mind at ease. There is now a romantic case that ought to be settled. A company of romantic enemies have not yet been reborn into the world. Taking this opportunity, I will carry this foolish thing in with them and let it go through some experience." The Daoist said: "So the romantic debts of late are about to undergo tribulation and pass through the world again? But I do not know where they will fall." The monk laughed: "This is amusing to tell—it is a rare thing unheard of for ages. On the bank of the Spiritual River in the West, beside the Three-Life Stone, there was a Crimson Pearl Grass. At that time there was an Attendant of the Divine Jade in the Palace of Red Flaws, who daily watered it with sweet dew, and so the Crimson Pearl Grass was able to live long. Later, having received the essence of heaven and earth and the nourishment of rain and dew, it escaped its grass-and-wood nature, changed into human form, and cultivated into a female body. All day she wandered beyond the Heaven of Parting Sorrow; when hungry she ate the Green Fruit of Honey as her meal, when thirsty she drank the water of the Sea of Grief as her soup. But because she had not yet repaid the debt of watering, within her heart was knotted a lingering, endless feeling. Just recently the Attendant of the Divine Jade's earthly heart suddenly flared. Taking advantage of this bright and peaceful age, he wished to descend to the mortal world to experience an illusory destiny, and has already registered before the Goddess of Disillusionment. Disillusionment also asked about it: the debt of watering was unpaid, and this would be a good chance to settle it. The Crimson Pearl Fairy said: 'He gave me the grace of sweet dew, and I have no such water to repay him. Since he is going down into the world as a man, I too will go down as a woman, and I will repay him with all the tears of my life—that should be enough to repay him.' Because of this one matter, many romantic enemies were drawn in to accompany them and settle the case." The Daoist said: "This is indeed rare. I have never heard of repaying tears. I imagine this story is more minute and delicate than all past tales of love." The monk said: "Past romantic figures have only had their general outline, poems and essays handed down; the eating and drinking in family and women's chambers has never been recorded. Moreover, most love stories are only stealing fragrance and jade, secret appointments and elopements; they have never vented even a little of the true feelings of boys and girls. I think when this company enters the world, their passion, infatuation, lust, worthiness, folly and unworthiness will all be different from what former people have transmitted." The Daoist said: "Why not take this chance and let us too go down to the world and save a few souls? Would that not be a merit?" The monk said: "That suits my wish. Come with me to the palace of the Goddess of Disillusionment and hand over this foolish thing clearly. After this company of romantic ghosts has all been reborn, you and I can go. Now, though half of them have already fallen into the dust, they are not yet all assembled." The Daoist said: "If so, I will follow you."
  - id: chapter-1-008
    source: 卻說甄士隱俱听得明白，但不知所云"蠢物"系何東西．遂不禁上前施禮 ，笑問道：“二仙師請了。”那僧道也忙答禮相問．士隱因說道：“适聞仙 師所談因果，實人世罕聞者．但弟子愚濁，不能洞悉明白，若蒙大開痴頑，
      備細一聞，弟子則洗耳諦听，稍能警省，亦可免沉倫之苦。”二仙笑道：“ 此乃玄机不可預泄者．到那時不要忘我二人，便可跳出火坑矣。”士隱听了 ，不便再問．因笑道：“玄机不可預泄，但适云`蠢物'，不知為何，或可一
      見否？"那僧道：“若問此物，倒有一面之緣。”說著，取出遞与士隱．士 隱接了看時，原來是塊鮮明美玉，上面字跡分明，鐫著"通靈寶玉"四字，后 面還有几行小字．正欲細看時，那僧便說已到幻境，便強從手中奪了去，与
      道人竟過一大石牌坊，上書四個大字，乃是"太虛幻境"．兩邊又有一幅對聯 ，道是：
    target: >-
      Now Zhen Shiyin heard all clearly, but did not know what the "foolish thing" they spoke of was. He could not help stepping forward, bowing, and asking with a smile: "Greetings, two immortal masters." The monk and Daoist quickly returned his greeting. Shiyin then said: "I have just heard the immortal masters speak of cause and effect, truly a thing rarely heard in the human world. But your disciple is foolish and muddy and cannot fully understand. If you would greatly open my stupid mind and let me hear the details, I would wash my ears and listen carefully. If I could gain a little awakening, I might also escape the suffering of sinking." The two immortals laughed: "This is a mystery that must not be revealed in advance. When that time comes, do not forget the two of us, and you can leap out of the fiery pit." Hearing this, Shiyin did not press further. He smiled and said: "Since the mystery may not be revealed in advance, but you just spoke of a 'foolish thing'—I do not know what it is; might I see it?" The monk said: "If you ask about this thing, you do have a one-face affinity with it." So saying, he took it out and handed it to Shiyin. Shiyin received it and looked: it was a bright, beautiful jade, with clear writing on it, engraved with the four characters 'Spiritual Treasure Jade', and behind it were several lines of small characters. Just as he wanted to look closely, the monk said they had arrived at the Illusory Realm and snatched it back from his hand. With the Daoist he passed through a great stone archway inscribed with four large characters: 'The Great Illusory Realm of Supreme Emptiness.' On both sides there was a couplet:
  - id: chapter-1-009
    source: 這士隱正痴想，忽見隔壁葫蘆廟內寄居的一個窮儒-姓賈名化，表字時 飛，別號雨行者走了出來．這賈雨村原系胡州人氏，也是詩書仕宦之族，因 他生于末世，父母祖宗根基已盡，人口衰喪，只剩得他一身一口，在家鄉無
      益，因進京求取功名，再整基業．自前歲來此，又淹蹇住了，暫寄廟中安身 ，每日賣字作文為生，故士隱常与他交接．當下雨村見了士隱，忙施禮陪笑 道：“老先生倚門佇望，敢是街市上有甚新聞否？"士隱笑道：“非也．适
      因小女啼哭，引他出來作耍，正是無聊之甚，兄來得正妙，請入小齋一談， 彼此皆可消此永晝。”說著，便令人送女儿進去，自与雨村攜手來至書房中 ．小童獻茶．方談得三五句話，忽家人飛報：“嚴老爺來拜。”士隱慌的忙
      起身謝罪道：“恕誑駕之罪，略坐，弟即來陪。”雨村忙起身亦讓道：“老 先生請便．晚生乃常造之客，稍候何妨。”說著，士隱已出前廳去了．
    target: >-
      As Shiyin was lost in foolish thought, he suddenly saw a poor scholar lodging in the neighboring Gourd Temple come out. His surname was Jia, given name Hua, courtesy name Shifei, and sobriquet Yucun. This Jia Yucun was originally from Huzhou, also of a clan of scholars and officials. Because he was born in a declining age, his parents and ancestors' foundation was exhausted, the family population had dwindled, leaving only himself alone. Having no prospects in his native place, he went to the capital to seek fame and rebuild the family estate. Since coming here the year before, he had been stranded and lodged temporarily in the temple, making a living by selling calligraphy and writing compositions. Thus Shiyin often associated with him. Now Yucun saw Shiyin, quickly bowed and smiled: "Old sir, leaning at the door and gazing—is there some news in the market?" Shiyin smiled: "No. Just now my little daughter was crying, so I brought her out to play. I was extremely bored, and your coming is most timely. Please come into my humble study and talk; we can both while away this long day." So saying, he had someone take his daughter inside, and hand in hand with Yucun came to the study. A young servant offered tea. They had talked only three or five sentences when a servant rushed in to report: "Old Master Yan has come to call." Shiyin hurriedly rose and apologized: "Forgive me for imposing on your visit. Sit a moment; I will return to keep you company." Yucun quickly rose and also said: "Please go ahead, old sir. I am a frequent visitor; waiting a little is no matter." As he spoke, Shiyin had already gone out to the front hall.
  - id: chapter-1-010
    source: 一日，早又中秋佳節．士隱家宴已畢，乃又另具一席于書房，卻自己步 月至廟中來邀雨村．原來雨村自那日見了甄家之婢曾回顧他兩次，自為是個 知己，便時刻放在心上．今又正值中秋，不免對月有怀，因而口占五言一律
      云：
    target: >-
      One day, soon came the Mid-Autumn Festival. After the family feast was over, Shiyin prepared another table in the study, and himself walked by moonlight to the temple to invite Yucun. Now Yucun, since the day he saw the Zhen family's maid turn back to look at him twice, considered her a true confidante, and kept her constantly in his heart. Now it was again Mid-Autumn, and he could not help feeling moved by the moon, so he improvised a regulated five-character poem:
  - id: chapter-1-011
    source: 蟾光如有意，先上玉人樓．雨村吟罷，因又思及平生抱負，苦未逢時， 乃又搔首對天長歎，复高吟一聯曰：
    target: >-
      If the toad's light has feeling, let it first climb the jade beauty's tower. After Yucun finished chanting, he thought again of his lifelong ambition, and bitterly that he had not met the right time. He scratched his head, sighed long at heaven, and again chanted a couplet aloud:
  - id: chapter-1-012
    source: 可巧這日拄了拐杖掙挫到街前散散心時，忽見那邊來了一個跛足道人， 瘋癲落脫，麻屣鶉衣，口內念著几句言詞，道是：
    target: >-
      It happened that on this day, leaning on a staff, he struggled to the street to relieve his mind, when he suddenly saw a lame Daoist coming from that side, mad and slovenly, in hempen sandals and quail-like tattered clothes, muttering a few words:
  - id: chapter-1-013
    source: 痴心父母古來多，孝順儿孫誰見了？士隱听了，便迎上來道：“你滿口 說些什么？只听見些`好'`了'`好'`了'．那道人笑道：“你若果听見`好'`
      了'二字，還算你明白．可知世上万般，好便是了，了便是好．若不了，便 不好，若要好，須是了．我這歌儿，便名《好了歌》"士隱本是有宿慧的， 一聞此言，心中早已徹悟．因笑道：“且住！待我將你這《好了歌》解注出
      來何如？"道人笑道：“你解，你解。”士隱乃說道：
    target: >-
      Infatuated parents have been many since olden times; who has seen filial children and grandchildren? When Shiyin heard this, he came forward and said: "What are you saying? I only heard 'good' and 'done', 'good' and 'done'." The Daoist laughed: "If you really heard the two words 'good' and 'done', you are still considered clear-headed. You should know that in all things of the world, good is done, and done is good. If not done, then not good; if you want good, you must be done. This song of mine is called the 'Song of Good and Done'." Shiyin was originally one with innate wisdom; hearing these words, his heart was already fully awakened. He smiled and said: "Wait! Let me interpret your 'Song of Good and Done' for you." The Daoist laughed: "Interpret it, interpret it." Shiyin then said:
  - id: chapter-1-014
    source: 陋室空堂，當年笏滿床，衰草枯楊，曾為歌舞場．蛛絲儿結滿雕梁，綠 紗今又糊在蓬窗上．說什么脂正濃，粉正香，如何兩鬢又成霜？昨日黃土隴 頭送白骨，今宵紅燈帳底臥鴛鴦．金滿箱，銀滿箱，展眼乞丐人皆謗．正歎
      他人命不長，那知自己歸來喪！訓有方，保不定日后作強梁．擇膏粱，誰承 望流落在煙花巷！因嫌紗帽小，致使鎖枷杠，昨怜破襖寒，今嫌紫蟒長：亂 烘烘你方唱罷我登場，反認他鄉是故鄉．甚荒唐，到頭來都是為他人作嫁衣
      裳！那瘋跛道人听了，拍掌笑道：“解得切，解得切！"士隱便說一聲"走罷 ！"將道人肩上褡褳搶了過來背著，竟不回家，同了瘋道人飄飄而去．當下 烘動街坊，眾人當作一件新聞傳說．封氏聞得此信，哭個死去活來，只得与
      父親商議，遣人各處訪尋，那討音信？無奈何，少不得依靠著他父母度日． 幸而身邊還有兩個舊日的丫鬟伏侍，主仆三人，日夜作些針線發賣，幫著父 親用度．那封肅雖然日日抱怨，也無可奈何了．
    target: >-
      Mean rooms and empty halls—once, tablets of office filled the bed. Withered grass and dead willows—once a place of song and dance. Spiderwebs cover the carved beams; green silk now pastes the rustic window. Why speak of rouge still thick and powder still fragrant, when the hair at both temples has turned to frost? Yesterday, at the yellow-earth mound, white bones were buried; tonight, under the red lantern, mandarin ducks lie in the bed. Gold fills the chest, silver fills the chest—in a blink, a beggar whom all revile. Just lamenting that others' lives are short, how know one's own return is death! Though taught with method, one cannot be sure he will not become a brigand. Choosing fine grain and rich food, who would expect to end in a courtesan's lane? Because he disliked his gauze cap being small, he ended up in chains and cangue. Yesterday he pitied the cold of a torn jacket; today he dislikes the long purple robe. In noisy confusion, you finish singing and I come on stage; instead we mistake a foreign land for home. How absurd—in the end, all is making wedding clothes for others! When the mad, lame Daoist heard this, he clapped and laughed: "A fitting interpretation, a fitting interpretation!" Shiyin then said, "Let us go!" He snatched the mendicant's bag from the Daoist's shoulder, carried it on his back, and without returning home, went off floating with the mad Daoist. At once the neighborhood was stirred, and everyone told it as a piece of news. When Madam Feng heard this, she wept as if she would die and come back to life. She had no choice but to discuss with her father and send people everywhere to search, but what news could they find? There was nothing to be done; she had to rely on her parents for a living. Fortunately, she still had two old maidservants to serve her. The three of them, mistress and servants, did needlework day and night to sell, helping her father's expenses. Though Feng Su complained every day, there was nothing he could do.