msgid ""
msgstr ""
"Language: en-US\n"
"Content-Type: text/plain; charset=UTF-8\n"

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-001"
msgid "此開卷第一回也．作者自云：因曾歷過一番夢幻之后，故將真事隱去， 而借\"通靈\"之說，撰此《石頭記》一書也．故曰\"甄士隱\"云云．但書中所記 何事何人？自又云：“今風塵碌碌，一事無成，忽念及當日所有之女子，一 一細考較去，覺其行止見識，皆出于我之上．何我堂堂須眉，誠不若彼裙釵 哉？實愧則有余，悔又無益之大無可如何之日也！當此，則自欲將已往所賴 天恩祖德，錦衣紈褲之時，飫甘饜肥之日，背父兄教育之恩，負師友規談之 德，以至今日一技無成，半生潦倒之罪，編述一集，以告天下人：我之罪固 不免，然閨閣中本自歷歷有人，万不可因我之不肖，自護己短，一并使其泯 滅也．雖今日之茅椽蓬牖，瓦灶繩床，其晨夕風露，階柳庭花，亦未有妨我 之襟怀筆墨者．雖我未學，下筆無文，又何妨用假語村言，敷演出一段故事 來，亦可使閨閣昭傳，复可悅世之目，破人愁悶，不亦宜乎？\"故曰\"賈雨村 \"云云．"
msgstr "This is the opening chapter of the book. The author says: Having once passed through a dreamlike illusion, he concealed the true events, and borrowing the idea of “spiritual understanding,” wrote this book, The Story of the Stone. Hence the name “Zhen Shiyin” [“True Facts Concealed”], and so on. But what events and what people are recorded in the book? He further says: “Now, in the dusty world, busy and achieving nothing, I suddenly recall all the women of those days. Examining them one by one, I find their conduct and understanding all above mine. How is it that I, a full-grown man, am truly not the equal of those women? Truly, shame is more than I can bear, and regret is useless; there is no way out! At such a time, I wish to record my past—when I relied on Heaven's grace and my ancestors' virtue, wore brocade and silk, and ate rich delicacies; when I betrayed the kindness of my father and elder brothers' teaching and failed the virtue of teachers and friends' counsel; and down to today, with no skill accomplished and half a lifetime in poverty—I wish to compile it into a volume to tell the world: my guilt is indeed unavoidable, but in the women's quarters there have always been outstanding people. I must not, because of my own unworthiness, shield my shortcomings and let them all be obliterated. Though today I have thatched rafters and a reed window, a tile stove and a rope bed, the morning and evening wind and dew, the willows by the steps and flowers in the courtyard, none of these hinders my feelings and my brush and ink. Though I am unlearned and my writing lacks polish, what harm is there in using false words and rustic speech to elaborate a story? It may make the women of the inner quarters known, please the eyes of the world, and dispel people's sorrow and boredom—is that not fitting?” Hence the name “Jia Yucun” [“Fiction in Rustic Words”], and so on."

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-002"
msgid "此回中凡用“夢”用“幻”等字，是提醒閱者眼目，亦是此書立意本旨 ．"
msgstr "In this chapter, the use of such words as “dream” and “illusion” is to alert the reader's eyes, and it is also the fundamental purpose of this book."

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-003"
msgid "原來女媧氏煉石補天之時，于大荒山無稽崖練成高經十二丈，方經二十 四丈頑石三万六千五百零一塊．媧皇氏只用了三万六千五百塊，只單單剩了 一塊未用，便棄在此山青埂峰下．誰知此石自經段煉之后，靈性已通，因見 眾石俱得補天，獨自己無材不堪入選，遂自怨自歎，日夜悲號慚愧．"
msgstr "Now, when Nüwa smelted stones to repair the sky, on Great Fable Mountain and at Unsubstantiated Cliff she smelted a stubborn stone twelve zhang high and twenty-four zhang square, and also thirty-six thousand five hundred and one such stones. But Nüwa used only thirty-six thousand five hundred of them, leaving exactly one unused, which she cast down at the foot of Green Ridge Peak on that mountain. Who would have thought that after this stone had been smelted, it had already gained spiritual understanding? Seeing that all the other stones were chosen to repair the sky, and that it alone was unfit and unselected, it sighed in self-pity and cried in shame day and night."

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-004"
msgid "空空道人遂向石頭說道：“石兄，你這一段故事，据你自己說有些趣味 ，故編寫在此，意欲問世傳奇．据我看來，第一件，無朝代年紀可考，第二 件，并無大賢大忠理朝廷治風俗的善政，其中只不過几個异樣女子，或情或 痴，或小才微善，亦無班姑，蔡女之德能．我縱抄去，恐世人不愛看呢。” 石頭笑答道：“我師何太痴耶！若云無朝代可考，今我師竟假借漢唐等年紀 添綴，又有何難？但我想，歷來野史，皆蹈一轍，莫如我這不借此套者，反 倒新奇別致，不過只取其事体情理罷了，又何必拘拘于朝代年紀哉！再者， 市井俗人喜看理治之書者甚少，愛适趣閒文者特多．歷來野史，或訕謗君相 ，或貶人妻女，奸淫凶惡，不可胜數．更有一种風月筆墨，其淫穢污臭，屠 毒筆墨，坏人子弟，又不可胜數．至若佳人才子等書，則又千部共出一套， 且其中終不能不涉于淫濫，以致滿紙潘安，子建，西子，文君，不過作者要 寫出自己的那兩首情詩艷賦來，故假擬出男女二人名姓，又必旁出一小人其 間撥亂，亦如劇中之小丑然．且鬟婢開口即者也之乎，非文即理．故逐一看 去，悉皆自相矛盾，大不近情理之話，竟不如我半世親睹親聞的這几個女子 ，雖不敢說強似前代書中所有之人，但事跡原委，亦可以消愁破悶，也有几 首歪詩熟話，可以噴飯供酒．至若离合悲歡，興衰際遇，則又追蹤躡跡，不 敢稍加穿鑿，徒為供人之目而反失其真傳者．今之人，貧者日為衣食所累， 富者又怀不足之心，縱然一時稍閒，又有貪淫戀色，好貨尋愁之事，那里去 有工夫看那理治之書？所以我這一段故事，也不愿世人稱奇道妙，也不定要 世人喜悅檢讀，只愿他們當那醉淫飽臥之時，或避世去愁之際，把此一玩， 豈不省了些壽命筋力？就比那謀虛逐妄，卻也省了口舌是非之害，腿腳奔忙 之．再者，亦令世人換新眼目，不比那些胡牽亂扯，忽离忽遇，滿紙才人 淑女，子建文君紅娘小玉等通共熟套之舊稿．我師意為何如？”"
msgstr "The Daoist of Empty Void then said to the stone: “Stone brother, this story of yours—according to you, it has some interest, and so you have written it here, wishing to publish it as a marvel. But in my view, first, there is no dynasty or date to verify; second, there are no great sages or loyal ministers governing the court and reforming morals. There are only a few unusual women, some passionate, some foolish, some with small talents and slight virtues, and none with the virtue and ability of Ban Gu's aunt or Cai Wenji. Even if I copy it and take it out, I fear the world will not love to read it.” The stone laughed and replied: “Master, why are you so foolish? If you say there is no dynasty to verify, what difficulty is there for you to borrow the reign titles of Han or Tang and add them? But I think that historical romances of the past all tread the same rut. It would be better for me not to borrow such conventions; instead, it would be novel and distinctive. I merely take the essential truth of the events; why must I be bound by dynasty and date? Moreover, among the common people of the marketplace, those who like books on governance are very few, while those who love entertaining and leisurely writings are especially many. Past romances sometimes slander rulers and ministers, sometimes demean other people's wives and daughters; lewdness, cruelty, and wickedness are too numerous to count. There is also a kind of romantic writing—its obscenity and filth, its poisonous pen, corrupting young people—also too numerous to count. As for books about beauties and talented scholars, a thousand volumes all come from one mold, and they cannot avoid lewdness and excess, so that page after page are Pan An, Cao Zijian, Xi Shi, Zhuo Wenjun; the author merely wants to display his own two love poems and flowery rhapsodies, and so invents the names of a man and a woman, and must also bring in a petty villain to stir up trouble between them, just like the clown in a play. And the maids and servant girls speak in ‘zhi hu zhe ye’ at every turn; if not literary, then moralizing. Looking at them one by one, they are all self-contradictory and quite implausible. They are not equal to these few women I have seen and heard with my own eyes in half a lifetime. Though I dare not say they are stronger than all the people in earlier books, their deeds and circumstances can still dispel sorrow and boredom, and there are a few doggerel poems and familiar sayings that can make one laugh and serve as drinking talk. As for partings and reunions, joys and sorrows, rise and fall, and fortunes met, I have followed the traces closely and dared not add the slightest fabrication, merely to please people's eyes and thereby lose the true record. People today: the poor are daily burdened by food and clothing; the rich harbor discontent. Even if they have a little leisure, they have lust and greed for beauty, love of goods and pursuit of trouble—where would they find time to read books on governance? Therefore, my story does not seek the world's praise as marvelous, nor does it insist that people delight in reading it; I only wish them to take it up when drunk with lust or lying full after food, or when escaping the world and fleeing sorrow, and play with it—would it not save them some lifespan and strength? Compared with scheming after falsehood and chasing illusions, it also saves the harm of gossip and quarrels and the toil of running about. Furthermore, it may give the world new eyes, unlike those old manuscripts that pull things together at random, part and meet abruptly, and are full of talented men and virtuous maidens, Cao Zijian, Zhuo Wenjun, Hongniang, Xiaoyu, and all the familiar conventions. What does my master think?”"

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-005"
msgid "空空道人听如此說，思忖半晌，將《石頭記》再檢閱一遍，因見上面雖 有些指奸責佞貶惡誅邪之語，亦非傷時罵世之旨，及至君仁臣良父慈子孝， 凡倫常所關之處，皆是稱功頌德，眷眷無窮，實非別書之可比．雖其中大旨 談論，亦不過實錄其事，又非假擬妄稱，一味淫邀艷約，私訂偷盟之可比． 因毫不干涉時世，方從頭至尾抄錄回來，問世傳奇．從此空空道人因空見色 ，由色生情，傳情入色，自色悟空，遂易名為情僧，改《石頭記》為《情僧 錄》．東魯孔梅溪則題曰《風月寶鑒》．后因曹雪芹于悼紅軒中披閱十載， 增刪五次，纂成目錄，分出章回，則題曰《金陵十二釵》．并題一絕云："
msgstr "When the Daoist of Empty Void heard this, he pondered for a long while, then examined The Story of the Stone again. Though he saw in it some words accusing the wicked and condemning villainy, it was not intended to wound the times or scold the world. And when it came to the ruler's benevolence, the minister's loyalty, the father's affection, and the son's filial piety—wherever human relations were involved—it all praised virtue and extolled goodness, with endless devotion, truly incomparable to other books. Although its main discussions were no more than a true record of events, not false invention or wild claims, it could not be compared to mere lewd invitations and amorous trysts, secret pledges and stolen meetings. Because it did not interfere with the times or the world at all, he copied it from beginning to end and brought it out to publish as a marvel. From then on, the Daoist of Empty Void, seeing form through emptiness, generated feeling from form, transmitted feeling into form, and awakened to emptiness through form, changed his name to the Passionate Monk, and renamed The Story of the Stone as The Record of the Passionate Monk. Kong Meixi of Eastern Lu entitled it The Mirror of Wind and Moon. Later, Cao Xueqin in the Mourning Red Studio read it for ten years, added and deleted five times, compiled a table of contents, and divided it into chapters and sections, entitling it The Twelve Beauties of Jinling. He also wrote a quatrain:"

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-006"
msgid "當日地陷東南，這東南一隅有處曰姑蘇，有城曰閶門者，最是紅塵中一 二等富貴風流之地．這閶門外有個十里街，街內有個仁清巷，巷內有個古廟 ，因地方窄狹，人皆呼作葫蘆廟．廟旁住著一家鄉宦，姓甄，名費，字士隱 ．嫡妻封氏，情性賢淑，深明禮義．家中雖不甚富貴，然本地便也推他為望 族了．因這甄士隱稟性恬淡，不以功名為念，每日只以觀花修竹，酌酒吟詩 為樂，倒是神仙一流人品．只是一件不足：如今年已半百，膝下無儿，只有 一女，乳名喚作英蓮，年方三歲．"
msgstr "In those days, when the earth sank in the southeast, in that southeastern corner there was a place called Gusu, and a city called Changmen, the most prosperous and romantic place of the first or second rank in the red dust. Outside Changmen there was a Ten-Mile Street; in the street there was a lane called Renqing; in the lane there was an old temple. Because the place was narrow, people called it the Gourd Temple. Beside the temple lived a country gentleman named Zhen Fei, courtesy name Shiyin. His wife was of the Feng family, virtuous and gentle, deeply understanding propriety and righteousness. Though the family was not very wealthy or noble, locally they were considered a prominent clan. Zhen Shiyin was by nature tranquil and indifferent, not concerned with fame and rank; each day he took pleasure only in viewing flowers, cultivating bamboo, drinking wine, and chanting poetry—he was of the immortal sort. Only one thing was lacking: he was now past fifty, had no son, only one daughter, whose childhood name was Yinglian, just three years old."

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-007"
msgid "一日，炎夏永晝，士隱于書房閒坐，至手倦拋書，伏几少憩，不覺朦朧 睡去．夢至一處，不辨是何地方．忽見那廂來了一僧一道，且行且談．只听 道人問道：“你攜了這蠢物，意欲何往？\"那僧笑道：“你放心，如今現有 一段風流公案正該了結，這一干風流冤家，尚未投胎入世．趁此机會，就將 此蠢物夾帶于中，使他去經歷經歷。”那道人道：“原來近日風流冤孽又將 造劫歷世去不成？但不知落于何方何處？\"那僧笑道：“此事說來好笑，竟 是千古未聞的罕事．只因西方靈河岸上三生石畔，有絳珠草一株，時有赤瑕 宮神瑛侍者，日以甘露灌溉，這絳珠草始得久延歲月．后來既受天地精華， 复得雨露滋養，遂得脫卻草胎木質，得換人形，僅修成個女体，終日游于离 恨天外，饑則食蜜青果為膳，渴則飲灌愁海水為湯．只因尚未酬報灌溉之德 ，故其五內便郁結著一段纏綿不盡之意．恰近日這神瑛侍者凡心偶熾，乘此 昌明太平朝世，意欲下凡造歷幻緣，已在警幻仙子案前挂了號．警幻亦曾問 及，灌溉之情未償，趁此倒可了結的．那絳珠仙子道：`他是甘露之惠，我 并無此水可還．他既下世為人，我也去下世為人，但把我一生所有的眼淚還 他，也償還得過他了．'因此一事，就勾出多少風流冤家來，陪他們去了結 此案。”那道人道：“果是罕聞．實未聞有還淚之說．想來這一段故事，比 歷來風月事故更加瑣碎細膩了。”那僧道：“歷來几個風流人物，不過傳其 大概以及詩詞篇章而已，至家庭閨閣中一飲一食，總未述記．再者，大半風 月故事，不過偷香竊玉，暗約私奔而已，并不曾將儿女之真情發泄一二．想 這一干人入世，其情痴色鬼，賢愚不肖者，悉与前人傳述不同矣。”那道人 道：“趁此何不你我也去下世度脫几個，豈不是一場功德？\"那僧道：“正 合吾意，你且同我到警幻仙子宮中，將蠢物交割清楚，待這一干風流孽鬼下 世已完，你我再去．如今雖已有一半落塵，然猶未全集。”道人道：“既如 此，便隨你去來。”"
msgstr "One day, in the long daylight of midsummer, Shiyin was sitting idle in his study. When his hand grew tired and he put down his book, he leaned on the table for a short rest, and before he knew it he had fallen into a hazy sleep. He dreamed he arrived at a place, unable to tell where it was. Suddenly he saw a monk and a Daoist coming from that side, walking and talking. He heard the Daoist ask: “Where are you taking that stupid thing?” The monk laughed: “Don't worry. At present there is a romantic case that ought to be settled. A group of romantic enemies have not yet been reborn into the world. Taking this opportunity, I will insert this stupid thing among them and let it go through some experience.” The Daoist said: “So recently the romantic debtors are again going to create calamity and pass through the world? But I wonder where they will fall?” The monk laughed: “This matter is laughable when told; it is a rare thing unheard of through the ages. It is only because on the bank of the Numinous River in the West, beside the Stone of Three Lives, there is a Crimson Pearl Grass. At that time, the attendant of the Red Jade Palace, the Divine Jade Attendant, daily watered it with sweet dew, and so the Crimson Pearl Grass was able to prolong its years. Later, having received the essence of Heaven and Earth and the nourishment of rain and dew, it was able to shed its grass-and-wood nature and change into human form. It cultivated only into a female body, wandering all day beyond the Heaven of Parting Sorrow. When hungry, it ate honey-green fruit; when thirsty, it drank the water of the Sea of Grief. Because it had not yet repaid the debt of watering, there was knotted within it a lingering, endless longing. Just now, this Divine Jade Attendant's earthly heart suddenly flared. Taking advantage of this bright and peaceful age, he wishes to descend to the mortal world to experience an illusionary destiny. He has already registered before the Goddess of Disenchantment. The Goddess of Disenchantment also asked about it: since the debt of watering had not been repaid, it could be settled now. The Crimson Pearl Fairy said: ‘He gave me the grace of sweet dew, but I have no such water to repay him. Since he is going down into the world as a man, I too will go down into the world as a woman. I will repay him with all the tears of my life, and that will be enough to repay him.’ Because of this one matter, many romantic enemies were drawn in to accompany them and settle this case.” The Daoist said: “This is indeed rarely heard. I have never heard of repaying tears. I think this story is even more trifling and delicate than previous romantic tales.” The monk said: “In the past, several romantic figures were merely transmitted in rough outline and in poems and essays; as for the food and drink in family inner quarters, none was ever recorded. Moreover, most romantic stories are no more than stealing fragrance and jade, secret trysts and elopements, and never release even a bit of true feeling between men and women. I think when this group enters the world, their infatuation, lust, worthiness, foolishness, and unworthiness will all be different from what earlier writers transmitted.” The Daoist said: “Since that is so, why don't you and I also descend into the world and save a few? Would that not be a meritorious deed?” The monk said: “That suits my mind. You come with me to the palace of the Goddess of Disenchantment, and we will hand over the stupid thing clearly. After this group of romantic ghosts has finished descending into the world, we will go again. Now although half have already fallen into the dust, they are not yet all assembled.” The Daoist said: “If so, I will go with you.”"

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-008"
msgid "卻說甄士隱俱听得明白，但不知所云\"蠢物\"系何東西．遂不禁上前施禮 ，笑問道：“二仙師請了。”那僧道也忙答禮相問．士隱因說道：“适聞仙 師所談因果，實人世罕聞者．但弟子愚濁，不能洞悉明白，若蒙大開痴頑， 備細一聞，弟子則洗耳諦听，稍能警省，亦可免沉倫之苦。”二仙笑道：“ 此乃玄机不可預泄者．到那時不要忘我二人，便可跳出火坑矣。”士隱听了 ，不便再問．因笑道：“玄机不可預泄，但适云`蠢物'，不知為何，或可一 見否？\"那僧道：“若問此物，倒有一面之緣。”說著，取出遞与士隱．士 隱接了看時，原來是塊鮮明美玉，上面字跡分明，鐫著\"通靈寶玉\"四字，后 面還有几行小字．正欲細看時，那僧便說已到幻境，便強從手中奪了去，与 道人竟過一大石牌坊，上書四個大字，乃是\"太虛幻境\"．兩邊又有一幅對聯 ，道是："
msgstr "Now, Zhen Shiyin heard everything clearly, but he did not know what the “stupid thing” they spoke of was. He could not help stepping forward, saluting, and asking with a smile: “Greetings, two immortal masters.” The monk and the Daoist quickly returned the greeting. Shiyin then said: “I just heard the immortal masters discussing cause and effect, something truly rarely heard in the human world. But your disciple is foolish and muddy, unable to understand clearly. If you would be so kind as to open my dullness and let me hear it in detail, I would listen respectfully. If I could gain a little awakening, I might avoid the suffering of sinking into perdition.” The two immortals laughed: “This is a mystery that cannot be revealed in advance. When that time comes, do not forget the two of us, and you may escape the fiery pit.” Hearing this, Shiyin did not press further. He smiled: “Since the mystery cannot be revealed in advance, may I ask what the ‘stupid thing’ just mentioned is? Perhaps I might be allowed to see it?” The monk said: “If you ask about this thing, you do have a one-face affinity with it.” So saying, he took it out and handed it to Shiyin. Shiyin received it and looked: it was a bright, beautiful jade, with clear characters on it, engraved with the four words “Numinous Jade,” and behind it were several lines of small characters. Just as he was about to look closely, the monk said they had already arrived at the Illusory Realm, and forcibly snatched it from his hand. Together with the Daoist, they passed through a large stone archway inscribed with four large characters: “The Great Illusory Realm of the Void.” On both sides was a couplet:"

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-009"
msgid "這士隱正痴想，忽見隔壁葫蘆廟內寄居的一個窮儒-姓賈名化，表字時 飛，別號雨行者走了出來．這賈雨村原系胡州人氏，也是詩書仕宦之族，因 他生于末世，父母祖宗根基已盡，人口衰喪，只剩得他一身一口，在家鄉無 益，因進京求取功名，再整基業．自前歲來此，又淹蹇住了，暫寄廟中安身 ，每日賣字作文為生，故士隱常与他交接．當下雨村見了士隱，忙施禮陪笑 道：“老先生倚門佇望，敢是街市上有甚新聞否？\"士隱笑道：“非也．适 因小女啼哭，引他出來作耍，正是無聊之甚，兄來得正妙，請入小齋一談， 彼此皆可消此永晝。”說著，便令人送女儿進去，自与雨村攜手來至書房中 ．小童獻茶．方談得三五句話，忽家人飛報：“嚴老爺來拜。”士隱慌的忙 起身謝罪道：“恕誑駕之罪，略坐，弟即來陪。”雨村忙起身亦讓道：“老 先生請便．晚生乃常造之客，稍候何妨。”說著，士隱已出前廳去了．"
msgstr "Shiyin was lost in foolish thought when he suddenly saw a poor scholar lodging in the Gourd Temple next door come out. His surname was Jia, given name Hua, courtesy name Shifei, and his other name Yucun. This Jia Yucun was originally from Huzhou, also of a family of scholars and officials. Because he was born in a declining age, his parents and ancestors' foundations were exhausted, and the family had dwindled and died out, leaving only him alone. Having no advantage in his native place, he went to the capital to seek fame and rebuild the family estate. He had come here the year before, but had again been delayed, and lodged temporarily in the temple, selling his calligraphy and writing compositions for a living. Therefore Shiyin often associated with him. That day, when Yucun saw Shiyin, he quickly saluted and smiled: “Old gentleman, leaning at the gate and gazing far—is there some news in the marketplace?” Shiyin laughed: “No. Just now my little daughter was crying, and I brought her out to play. I was extremely bored, and your coming is most timely. Please come into my study and talk; we can both pass this long day.” So saying, he had his daughter sent inside, and hand in hand with Yucun came to the study. A servant boy offered tea. They had talked only three or five sentences when a servant rushed in to report: “Old Master Yan has come to call.” Shiyin hurriedly rose and apologized: “Forgive me for the offense of neglecting you. Sit for a while; I will return to keep you company.” Yucun quickly rose and also said: “Old gentleman, please go. I am a frequent guest; waiting a little is no trouble.” As he spoke, Shiyin had already gone out to the front hall."

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-010"
msgid "一日，早又中秋佳節．士隱家宴已畢，乃又另具一席于書房，卻自己步 月至廟中來邀雨村．原來雨村自那日見了甄家之婢曾回顧他兩次，自為是個 知己，便時刻放在心上．今又正值中秋，不免對月有怀，因而口占五言一律 云："
msgstr "One day, it was again the Mid-Autumn Festival. After the family banquet was over, Shiyin prepared another table in his study, and he himself walked by moonlight to the temple to invite Yucun. Now, since the day Yucun had seen the Zhen family's maid look back at him twice, he considered her a true friend, and kept her constantly in his heart. Now, as it was Mid-Autumn, he could not help feeling moved by the moon, and so he recited a regulated verse of five-character lines:"

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-011"
msgid "蟾光如有意，先上玉人樓．雨村吟罷，因又思及平生抱負，苦未逢時， 乃又搔首對天長歎，复高吟一聯曰："
msgstr "If the moonlight has any feeling, let it first climb the jade beauty's tower. After Yucun finished reciting, he thought again of his lifelong ambitions and his bitterness at not having met the right time. He scratched his head, sighed long at the sky, and then loudly chanted a couplet:"

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-012"
msgid "可巧這日拄了拐杖掙挫到街前散散心時，忽見那邊來了一個跛足道人， 瘋癲落脫，麻屣鶉衣，口內念著几句言詞，道是："
msgstr "It happened that on this day, leaning on a cane and struggling to the street to divert himself, he suddenly saw a lame Daoist coming from that side, mad and slovenly, in straw sandals and ragged clothes like a quail's feathers, muttering some words:"

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-013"
msgid "痴心父母古來多，孝順儿孫誰見了？士隱听了，便迎上來道：“你滿口 說些什么？只听見些`好'`了'`好'`了'．那道人笑道：“你若果听見`好'` 了'二字，還算你明白．可知世上万般，好便是了，了便是好．若不了，便 不好，若要好，須是了．我這歌儿，便名《好了歌》\"士隱本是有宿慧的， 一聞此言，心中早已徹悟．因笑道：“且住！待我將你這《好了歌》解注出 來何如？\"道人笑道：“你解，你解。”士隱乃說道："
msgstr "Infatuated parents have been many since ancient times; who has ever seen filial children and grandchildren? When Shiyin heard this, he stepped forward and said: “What are you saying all over? I only heard ‘good’ and ‘done,’ ‘good’ and ‘done.’” The Daoist laughed: “If you truly heard the two words ‘good’ and ‘done,’ then you still count as understanding. You should know that of all things in the world, good is done, and done is good. If not done, then it is not good; if you want good, you must be done. This song of mine is called the Song of Good and Done.” Shiyin had always had innate wisdom; hearing these words, he was already thoroughly enlightened in his heart. He laughed: “Wait! Let me write a commentary on your Song of Good and Done, how about it?” The Daoist laughed: “You comment, you comment.” Shiyin then said:"

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-014"
msgid "陋室空堂，當年笏滿床，衰草枯楊，曾為歌舞場．蛛絲儿結滿雕梁，綠 紗今又糊在蓬窗上．說什么脂正濃，粉正香，如何兩鬢又成霜？昨日黃土隴 頭送白骨，今宵紅燈帳底臥鴛鴦．金滿箱，銀滿箱，展眼乞丐人皆謗．正歎 他人命不長，那知自己歸來喪！訓有方，保不定日后作強梁．擇膏粱，誰承 望流落在煙花巷！因嫌紗帽小，致使鎖枷杠，昨怜破襖寒，今嫌紫蟒長：亂 烘烘你方唱罷我登場，反認他鄉是故鄉．甚荒唐，到頭來都是為他人作嫁衣 裳！那瘋跛道人听了，拍掌笑道：“解得切，解得切！\"士隱便說一聲\"走罷 ！\"將道人肩上褡褳搶了過來背著，竟不回家，同了瘋道人飄飄而去．當下 烘動街坊，眾人當作一件新聞傳說．封氏聞得此信，哭個死去活來，只得与 父親商議，遣人各處訪尋，那討音信？無奈何，少不得依靠著他父母度日． 幸而身邊還有兩個舊日的丫鬟伏侍，主仆三人，日夜作些針線發賣，幫著父 親用度．那封肅雖然日日抱怨，也無可奈何了．"
msgstr "Mean rooms and empty halls—once, tablets of office filled the bed; Dead grass and withered willows—once, a place of song and dance. Spider webs cover the carved beams; green silk is now pasted on the thatched window. Why speak of rouge so thick and powder so fragrant, when the temples have turned to frost? Yesterday, at the earthen mound, we saw off white bones; tonight, beneath the red lamp, lie mandarin ducks. Gold fills the chest, silver fills the chest—in the blink of an eye, everyone reviles a beggar. While sighing that another's life is short, how do you know your own return will be death? Though taught with method, there is no guarantee he will not become a robber later. Though one chooses fine grain, who would expect to end in a brothel? Because the gauze cap seemed too small, one ends up in the cangue and chains. Yesterday one pitied the cold of a torn coat; today one complains the purple robe is too long. In noisy confusion, you finish singing and I go on stage; mistaking a foreign land for home. How absurd—in the end, all is making a wedding dress for someone else! When the mad, lame Daoist heard this, he clapped his hands and laughed: “The explanation is apt, the explanation is apt!” Shiyin then said, “Let's go!” He snatched the cloth bundle from the Daoist's shoulder, carried it on his back, and without returning home, went off floating with the mad Daoist. At once the neighborhood was stirred; everyone spread it as news. When Mrs. Feng heard this, she cried herself half dead. She had no choice but to discuss with her father and send people everywhere to search, but what news did they find? There was nothing to be done; she had to rely on her parents to get by. Fortunately, she still had two old maidservants attending her. The three of them, mistress and servants, worked at needlework day and night to sell, helping her father with expenses. Although Feng Su complained every day, there was nothing he could do."