header:
  namespace: clarion
  clan: hongloumeng-joly
  source-language: zh-CN
  target-language: en-US
  title: Hung Lou Meng (Dream of the Red Chamber), Chinese original with Joly's 1892
    translation
  info: This is the opening chapter of the 18th-century Chinese novel 'Hung Lou Meng'
    (Dream of the Red Chamber), presented alongside H. Bencraft Joly's 1892 English
    translation. The content includes the author's framing preface, a mythological
    creation story, and the beginning of the main narrative introducing characters
    such as Zhen Shiyin and Jia Yucun. The target audience is English-speaking readers
    of classical Chinese literature, likely in an academic or literary context. Translators
    should be aware that this is a bilingual edition pairing the classical Chinese
    source with a Victorian-era translation, so the English text may reflect 19th-century
    stylistic conventions rather than modern usage.
  standard: Maintain a formal, literary register appropriate to classical Chinese
    fiction. Romanize Chinese names using the pinyin system as established in the
    source edition; do not translate personal names, place names, or book titles that
    have established romanizations. Preserve the original paragraph and segment structure.
    Keep untranslated any terms that are proper nouns, official titles, or culturally
    specific references where the source edition retains romanization. Use standard
    English punctuation and spacing conventions. Do not modernize archaic English
    phrasing if it appears in the source translation.
groups:
- path: chapter-1
  context: Imported from Hung Lou Meng (Dream of the Red Chamber), Chinese original
    with Joly's 1892 translation. Document 'chapter-1', 14 segments in their original
    order; translate them as one continuous document, not as isolated sentences.
  entries:
  - id: chapter-1-001
    source: 此開卷第一回也．作者自云：因曾歷過一番夢幻之后，故將真事隱去， 而借"通靈"之說，撰此《石頭記》一書也．故曰"甄士隱"云云．但書中所記 何事何人？自又云：“今風塵碌碌，一事無成，忽念及當日所有之女子，一
      一細考較去，覺其行止見識，皆出于我之上．何我堂堂須眉，誠不若彼裙釵 哉？實愧則有余，悔又無益之大無可如何之日也！當此，則自欲將已往所賴 天恩祖德，錦衣紈褲之時，飫甘饜肥之日，背父兄教育之恩，負師友規談之
      德，以至今日一技無成，半生潦倒之罪，編述一集，以告天下人：我之罪固 不免，然閨閣中本自歷歷有人，万不可因我之不肖，自護己短，一并使其泯 滅也．雖今日之茅椽蓬牖，瓦灶繩床，其晨夕風露，階柳庭花，亦未有妨我
      之襟怀筆墨者．雖我未學，下筆無文，又何妨用假語村言，敷演出一段故事 來，亦可使閨閣昭傳，复可悅世之目，破人愁悶，不亦宜乎？"故曰"賈雨村 "云云．
    target: >-
      This is the opening chapter of the book. In the author's own words: — Having
      once, in a dream of fantasy, passed through all the illusions of a lifetime,
      he therefore veiled the true facts, and, under the pretence of the tale of
      "spiritual perception," wrote this book, the Story of the Stone. Hence it is
      that he speaks of "Zhen Shiyin." But what is it that the book records, and
      who are the persons in it? He says again of himself: "In this dusty world of
      toil and turmoil I have accomplished nothing, when suddenly I bethink me of
      all the women of former days; and, examining them one by one, I perceive that
      in conduct and understanding they all stand above me. What am I, a full-grown
      man with beard and brows, that I should be found so far beneath those girls
      of the inner chambers? Shame I have in abundance, and repentance is of no avail,
      on this day of utter helplessness! Wherefore I would fain take all that has
      gone before — the days when I leaned upon the grace of Heaven and the virtue
      of my ancestors, the time of silken robes and fine trousers, the days when
      I was cloyed with rich and delicate fare, my betrayal of the kindness of a
      father's and an elder brother's teaching, my default upon the virtue of the
      counsels of teachers and friends, down to this present day when I have not
      one skill to my name and have spent half a life in failure — and set it forth
      in a book, to tell it to all the world: my own guilt, indeed, I cannot escape;
      but the women's apartments have ever had their own bright souls, and I must
      not, because of my own unworthiness, shield my own shortcomings and let them
      all be blotted out with me. Though today I have thatch for rafters and fleabane
      for windows, an earthen stove and a rope bed, yet the wind and dew of morning
      and evening, the willows by the steps and the flowers in the court, have never
      yet hindered the free play of my heart and my brush. Though I am without learning,
      and my pen without any graces, what harm is there in using idle phrases and
      village talk to spread out a tale? So may the maidens of the inner chambers
      be made known abroad, and the eyes of the world be gladdened and men's sorrow
      broken — is that not fitting?" Hence it is that he speaks of "Jia Yucun."
    type: narration
    emotion:
    - formal
    - serious
    - nostalgic
    status: initial
    context: '第一回 甄士隱夢幻識通靈 賈雨村風塵怀閨秀 / chapter 1. Paragraph 1 of the chapter, aligned
      by index and verified (14 of 27 proposals accepted). Following segment: 此回中凡用“夢”用“幻”等字，是提醒閱者眼目，亦是此書立意本旨
      ．'
  - id: chapter-1-002
    source: 此回中凡用“夢”用“幻”等字，是提醒閱者眼目，亦是此書立意本旨 ．
    target: >-
      In this chapter, the recurrence of such words as "dream" and "illusion" is
      meant to rouse the reader's eyes, and is likewise the keynote and the essential
      purpose of this book.
    type: narration
    emotion:
    - formal
    - objective
    status: initial
    context: '第一回 甄士隱夢幻識通靈 賈雨村風塵怀閨秀 / chapter 1. Paragraph 2 of the chapter, aligned
      by index and verified (14 of 27 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 此開卷第一回也．作者自云：因曾歷過一番夢幻之后，故將真事隱去，
      而借"通靈"之說，撰此《石頭記》一書也．故曰"甄士隱"云云．但書中所記 何事何人？自又云：“今風塵碌碌，一事無成，… Following segment:
      原來女媧氏煉石補天之時，于大荒山無稽崖練成高經十二丈，方經二十 四丈頑石三万六千五百零一塊．媧皇氏只用了三万六千五百塊，只單單剩了 一塊未用，便棄在此山青埂峰下．誰知此石自經段煉…'
  - id: chapter-1-003
    source: 原來女媧氏煉石補天之時，于大荒山無稽崖練成高經十二丈，方經二十 四丈頑石三万六千五百零一塊．媧皇氏只用了三万六千五百塊，只單單剩了 一塊未用，便棄在此山青埂峰下．誰知此石自經段煉之后，靈性已通，因見
      眾石俱得補天，獨自己無材不堪入選，遂自怨自歎，日夜悲號慚愧．
    target: >-
      It appears that when Nüwa smelted stones to mend the sky, she smelted, at the
      Great Absurd Mountain and the Unfounded Cliff, three myriads six thousand five
      hundred and one blocks of stubborn stone, each twelve chang in height and twenty-four
      chang square. The Queen of Nüwa used only three myriads six thousand five hundred
      of them, and there remained over one single block, unused, which she cast away
      at the foot of the Blue Ridge Peak on this mountain. Who could have known that
      this stone, after being smelted and tempered, had acquired spiritual understanding?
      And because it saw that all the other stones had been found worthy to mend the
      sky, while it alone, having no stuff in it, was unfit to be chosen, it fell to
      complaining and sighing over itself, and day and night bewailed its shame.
    type: narration
    emotion:
    - formal
    - sad
    - serious
    status: initial
    context: '第一回 甄士隱夢幻識通靈 賈雨村風塵怀閨秀 / chapter 1. Paragraph 3 of the chapter, aligned
      by index and verified (14 of 27 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 此回中凡用“夢”用“幻”等字，是提醒閱者眼目，亦是此書立意本旨
      ． Following segment: 空空道人遂向石頭說道：“石兄，你這一段故事，据你自己說有些趣味 ，故編寫在此，意欲問世傳奇．据我看來，第一件，無朝代年紀可考，第二
      件，并無大賢大忠理朝廷治風俗的善政，其中只不過…'
  - id: chapter-1-004
    source: 空空道人遂向石頭說道：“石兄，你這一段故事，据你自己說有些趣味 ，故編寫在此，意欲問世傳奇．据我看來，第一件，無朝代年紀可考，第二 件，并無大賢大忠理朝廷治風俗的善政，其中只不過几個异樣女子，或情或
      痴，或小才微善，亦無班姑，蔡女之德能．我縱抄去，恐世人不愛看呢。” 石頭笑答道：“我師何太痴耶！若云無朝代可考，今我師竟假借漢唐等年紀 添綴，又有何難？但我想，歷來野史，皆蹈一轍，莫如我這不借此套者，反
      倒新奇別致，不過只取其事体情理罷了，又何必拘拘于朝代年紀哉！再者， 市井俗人喜看理治之書者甚少，愛适趣閒文者特多．歷來野史，或訕謗君相 ，或貶人妻女，奸淫凶惡，不可胜數．更有一种風月筆墨，其淫穢污臭，屠
      毒筆墨，坏人子弟，又不可胜數．至若佳人才子等書，則又千部共出一套， 且其中終不能不涉于淫濫，以致滿紙潘安，子建，西子，文君，不過作者要 寫出自己的那兩首情詩艷賦來，故假擬出男女二人名姓，又必旁出一小人其
      間撥亂，亦如劇中之小丑然．且鬟婢開口即者也之乎，非文即理．故逐一看 去，悉皆自相矛盾，大不近情理之話，竟不如我半世親睹親聞的這几個女子 ，雖不敢說強似前代書中所有之人，但事跡原委，亦可以消愁破悶，也有几
      首歪詩熟話，可以噴飯供酒．至若离合悲歡，興衰際遇，則又追蹤躡跡，不 敢稍加穿鑿，徒為供人之目而反失其真傳者．今之人，貧者日為衣食所累， 富者又怀不足之心，縱然一時稍閒，又有貪淫戀色，好貨尋愁之事，那里去
      有工夫看那理治之書？所以我這一段故事，也不愿世人稱奇道妙，也不定要 世人喜悅檢讀，只愿他們當那醉淫飽臥之時，或避世去愁之際，把此一玩， 豈不省了些壽命筋力？就比那謀虛逐妄，卻也省了口舌是非之害，腿腳奔忙
      之．再者，亦令世人換新眼目，不比那些胡牽亂扯，忽离忽遇，滿紙才人 淑女，子建文君紅娘小玉等通共熟套之舊稿．我師意為何如？”
    target: >-
      Kongkong the Taoist then addressed the Stone, saying: "Brother Stone, by your
      own account this tale of yours has something of interest in it, and so you have
      written it out here, wishing to publish it to the world as a marvel. But as
      I see it, in the first place there is no dynasty or date by which it can be
      verified; and in the second, there are no great worthies or great loyal ministers
      who order the court and reform the manners of the age. There are in it only
      a few uncommon women — some passionate, some foolish, some with small talents
      and slight virtues — and none of them with the virtue and ability of Aunt Ban
      or the maiden Cai. Even if I were to copy it out and take it away, I fear the
      world would not care to read it." The Stone laughed and answered: "Master,
      why are you so foolish? If you say that no dynasty can be verified, is it so
      hard a matter for you, Master, to borrow the style of the Han and the Tang and
      add a year or two to it? But I think that the unofficial histories of past ages
      have all trodden one and the same track; better that mine should not borrow
      that mould, and so be new and original instead. It takes only the circumstances
      and the reason of things; why must one be tied down to dynasty and date? Moreover,
      of the common folk in the market-place, those who like to read books of government
      and order are very few, while those who love agreeable and amusing idle writings
      are exceedingly many. The unofficial histories of past ages either rail at prince
      and minister, or defame men's wives and daughters; lewdness, cruelty and wickedness
      are past all reckoning. And there is another kind — the writings of wind and
      moon — whose obscenity and filth, whose poisonous ink, corrupt the sons and
      younger brothers of good families; these too are past all reckoning. As for
      the books of beautiful maidens and gifted scholars, a thousand volumes come
      out of a single mould, nor can they in the end avoid lewdness and excess, so
      that the whole page is filled with Pan An, Zijian, Xi Shi and Wenjun; it is
      only that the author wishes to set out his own two love poems and amorous rhapsodies,
      and so invents names for a young man and a young woman, and must needs bring
      in a petty villain between them to stir up confusion, just like the clown in
      a play. And the maids and serving-girls, as soon as they open their mouths,
      speak in the manner of the classics; it is either letters or reason. So, looking
      at them one by one, they are all self-contradictory and utterly unreasonable
      talk — quite unworthy to be compared with these few women whom I have in half
      a lifetime seen with my own eyes and heard with my own ears; though I dare not
      say that they surpass all the persons in the books of former ages, yet the whole
      story of their lives may serve to dispel sorrow and break through melancholy,
      and there are a few doggerel verses and familiar sayings that may furnish laughter
      to accompany the wine. As for partings and meetings, joys and griefs, rise and
      decline, and the fortunes of life, these too I follow in their very footsteps,
      and dare not add the least touch of invention, merely to please men's eyes and
      thereby lose the true tradition. As for the men of today — the poor are daily
      burdened by food and clothing, the rich again harbour hearts of discontent;
      even if for a moment they have a little leisure, there are still lust and lechery,
      love of goods and seeking after sorrow; where would they find the time to read
      those books of government and order? Therefore this tale of mine does not wish
      the world to call it marvellous, nor need the world be pleased to take it up
      and read it; I only wish that when they are drunken and lie down full, or when
      they would shun the world and be rid of sorrow, they may take it up and amuse
      themselves with it — would it not spare them a little of their span and their
      strength? Compared with scheming after vanities and chasing after delusions,
      it would likewise spare them the harm of gossip and quarrels and the fatigue
      of hurrying about on their feet. Moreover, it will give the world a fresh eye,
      and is not like those old manuscripts in which things are dragged in at random,
      now parted and now met, full of pages of gifted scholars and virtuous maidens,
      of Zijian and Wenjun, Hongniang and Xiaoyu, and all the common worn-out stuff.
      What does my Master think of it?"
    type: dialogue
    emotion:
    - formal
    - serious
    - playful
    status: initial
    context: '第一回 甄士隱夢幻識通靈 賈雨村風塵怀閨秀 / chapter 1. Paragraph 4 of the chapter, aligned
      by index and verified (14 of 27 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 原來女媧氏煉石補天之時，于大荒山無稽崖練成高經十二丈，方經二十
      四丈頑石三万六千五百零一塊．媧皇氏只用了三万六千五百塊，只單單剩了 一塊未用，便棄在此山青埂峰下．誰知此石自經段煉… Following segment:
      空空道人听如此說，思忖半晌，將《石頭記》再檢閱一遍，因見上面雖 有些指奸責佞貶惡誅邪之語，亦非傷時罵世之旨，及至君仁臣良父慈子孝， 凡倫常所關之處，皆是稱功頌德，眷眷無窮，實非別…'
  - id: chapter-1-005
    source: 空空道人听如此說，思忖半晌，將《石頭記》再檢閱一遍，因見上面雖 有些指奸責佞貶惡誅邪之語，亦非傷時罵世之旨，及至君仁臣良父慈子孝， 凡倫常所關之處，皆是稱功頌德，眷眷無窮，實非別書之可比．雖其中大旨
      談論，亦不過實錄其事，又非假擬妄稱，一味淫邀艷約，私訂偷盟之可比． 因毫不干涉時世，方從頭至尾抄錄回來，問世傳奇．從此空空道人因空見色 ，由色生情，傳情入色，自色悟空，遂易名為情僧，改《石頭記》為《情僧
      錄》．東魯孔梅溪則題曰《風月寶鑒》．后因曹雪芹于悼紅軒中披閱十載， 增刪五次，纂成目錄，分出章回，則題曰《金陵十二釵》．并題一絕云：
    target: >-
      When Kongkong the Taoist heard these words he pondered for a long while, and
      once more read the Story of the Stone through from beginning to end; and because
      he saw that, though it contained certain phrases pointing out villainy, reproving
      flattery, condemning evil and punishing wrong, it was not written in the spirit
      of wounding the times and cursing the world; and that wherever it touched upon
      the kindness of princes, the worth of ministers, the affection of fathers and
      the filial piety of sons — wherever the bonds of human relationship were concerned
      — it was always praising merit and extolling virtue, with an inexhaustible affection,
      truly beyond comparison with any other book. Though the main purport of its
      talk was no more than a faithful record of events, and not false invention and
      vain assertion, nor to be compared with the mere lecherous solicitation and
      amorous appointment, the secret troth and stolen pledge. And because it in no
      way interfered with the times and the world, he copied it out from first to
      last and brought it back with him, to publish it to the world as a marvel. From
      that time forth, Kongkong the Taoist, beholding form within the void, and from
      form engendering feeling, transmitting feeling and entering into form, and from
      form awakening to the void, changed his name to the Monk of Feeling, and changed
      the title of the Story of the Stone to the Record of the Monk of Feeling. Kong
      Meixi of Eastern Lu gave it the title, the Precious Mirror of Wind and Moon.
      Afterwards, because Cao Xueqin had pored over it for ten years in the Mourning-the-Red
      Studio, added and deleted five times, compiled a table of contents and divided
      it into chapters and sections, he gave it the title, The Twelve Beauties of
      Jinling. And he also wrote a quatrain, which runs:
    type: narration
    emotion:
    - formal
    - objective
    status: initial
    context: '第一回 甄士隱夢幻識通靈 賈雨村風塵怀閨秀 / chapter 1. Paragraph 5 of the chapter, aligned
      by index and verified (14 of 27 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 空空道人遂向石頭說道：“石兄，你這一段故事，据你自己說有些趣味
      ，故編寫在此，意欲問世傳奇．据我看來，第一件，無朝代年紀可考，第二 件，并無大賢大忠理朝廷治風俗的善政，其中只不過… Following segment:
      當日地陷東南，這東南一隅有處曰姑蘇，有城曰閶門者，最是紅塵中一 二等富貴風流之地．這閶門外有個十里街，街內有個仁清巷，巷內有個古廟 ，因地方窄狹，人皆呼作葫蘆廟．廟旁住著一家鄉宦…'
  - id: chapter-1-006
    source: 當日地陷東南，這東南一隅有處曰姑蘇，有城曰閶門者，最是紅塵中一 二等富貴風流之地．這閶門外有個十里街，街內有個仁清巷，巷內有個古廟 ，因地方窄狹，人皆呼作葫蘆廟．廟旁住著一家鄉宦，姓甄，名費，字士隱
      ．嫡妻封氏，情性賢淑，深明禮義．家中雖不甚富貴，然本地便也推他為望 族了．因這甄士隱稟性恬淡，不以功名為念，每日只以觀花修竹，酌酒吟詩 為樂，倒是神仙一流人品．只是一件不足：如今年已半百，膝下無儿，只有
      一女，乳名喚作英蓮，年方三歲．
    target: >-
      In those days the earth sank in the south-east; and in this south-eastern corner
      there was a place called Gusu, and in it a city called Changmen, which was of
      all spots in the dusty world the first or second in wealth, honour and fashion.
      Outside this Changmen there was a street called Ten-Li Street; in the street
      there was a lane called Renqing Lane; and in the lane there was an old temple,
      which, because the ground was narrow and cramped, everyone called the Gourd
      Temple. Beside the temple dwelt a family of a country gentleman, surnamed Zhen,
      named Fei, whose courtesy-name was Shiyin. His lawful wife was of the Feng family,
      a woman of virtuous and gentle disposition, deeply versed in the proprieties.
      Though the household was not very wealthy or noble, yet the people of the place
      reckoned it among the great families. Because Zhen Shiyin was by nature calm
      and tranquil, and gave no thought to rank and fame, spending each day only in
      gazing at flowers, tending bamboos, pouring wine and chanting poems, he was
      in truth of the company of the immortals. There was but one thing wanting: he
      was now half a hundred years old, and had no son at his knee, but only one daughter,
      whose infant name was Yinglian, and who was just three years of age.
    type: narration
    emotion:
    - formal
    - calm
    status: initial
    context: '第一回 甄士隱夢幻識通靈 賈雨村風塵怀閨秀 / chapter 1. Paragraph 6 of the chapter, aligned
      by index and verified (14 of 27 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 空空道人听如此說，思忖半晌，將《石頭記》再檢閱一遍，因見上面雖
      有些指奸責佞貶惡誅邪之語，亦非傷時罵世之旨，及至君仁臣良父慈子孝， 凡倫常所關之處，皆是稱功頌德，眷眷無窮，實非別… Following segment:
      一日，炎夏永晝，士隱于書房閒坐，至手倦拋書，伏几少憩，不覺朦朧 睡去．夢至一處，不辨是何地方．忽見那廂來了一僧一道，且行且談．只听 道人問道：“你攜了這蠢物，意欲何往？"那僧笑道…'
  - id: chapter-1-007
    source: 一日，炎夏永晝，士隱于書房閒坐，至手倦拋書，伏几少憩，不覺朦朧 睡去．夢至一處，不辨是何地方．忽見那廂來了一僧一道，且行且談．只听 道人問道：“你攜了這蠢物，意欲何往？"那僧笑道：“你放心，如今現有
      一段風流公案正該了結，這一干風流冤家，尚未投胎入世．趁此机會，就將 此蠢物夾帶于中，使他去經歷經歷。”那道人道：“原來近日風流冤孽又將 造劫歷世去不成？但不知落于何方何處？"那僧笑道：“此事說來好笑，竟
      是千古未聞的罕事．只因西方靈河岸上三生石畔，有絳珠草一株，時有赤瑕 宮神瑛侍者，日以甘露灌溉，這絳珠草始得久延歲月．后來既受天地精華， 复得雨露滋養，遂得脫卻草胎木質，得換人形，僅修成個女体，終日游于离
      恨天外，饑則食蜜青果為膳，渴則飲灌愁海水為湯．只因尚未酬報灌溉之德 ，故其五內便郁結著一段纏綿不盡之意．恰近日這神瑛侍者凡心偶熾，乘此 昌明太平朝世，意欲下凡造歷幻緣，已在警幻仙子案前挂了號．警幻亦曾問
      及，灌溉之情未償，趁此倒可了結的．那絳珠仙子道：`他是甘露之惠，我 并無此水可還．他既下世為人，我也去下世為人，但把我一生所有的眼淚還 他，也償還得過他了．'因此一事，就勾出多少風流冤家來，陪他們去了結
      此案。”那道人道：“果是罕聞．實未聞有還淚之說．想來這一段故事，比 歷來風月事故更加瑣碎細膩了。”那僧道：“歷來几個風流人物，不過傳其 大概以及詩詞篇章而已，至家庭閨閣中一飲一食，總未述記．再者，大半風
      月故事，不過偷香竊玉，暗約私奔而已，并不曾將儿女之真情發泄一二．想 這一干人入世，其情痴色鬼，賢愚不肖者，悉与前人傳述不同矣。”那道人 道：“趁此何不你我也去下世度脫几個，豈不是一場功德？"那僧道：“正
      合吾意，你且同我到警幻仙子宮中，將蠢物交割清楚，待這一干風流孽鬼下 世已完，你我再去．如今雖已有一半落塵，然猶未全集。”道人道：“既如 此，便隨你去來。”
    target: >-
      One day, in the long hours of a hot summer, Shiyin sat at leisure in his study,
      until his hand grew weary and he threw down his book; leaning upon the table
      for a short rest, he fell imperceptibly into a drowsy sleep. In his dream he
      came to a place, and could not tell what place it was. Suddenly he saw coming
      from that side a monk and a Taoist, walking along and talking together. He heard
      the Taoist ask: "Whither are you carrying that stupid thing?" The monk laughed
      and said: "Set your mind at ease. There is now a case of love and passion that
      ought rightly to be brought to a close; this company of amorous foes have not
      yet been born into the world. Let us take this chance to slip this stupid thing
      in among them, and let it go and taste a little of life." The Taoist said: "So
      the amorous debt of recent days is to be born into the world once more and work
      out its destiny? But I do not know into what region and what spot it will fall."
      The monk laughed and said: "This is a laughable matter to tell — a rare thing,
      unheard of for a thousand ages. It is only that on the bank of the Spirit River
      in the West, beside the Stone of the Three Lives, there was a plant of Crimson
      Pearl Grass; and there was then an attendant of the Palace of the Red Jade,
      the Shenying Attendant, who daily watered it with sweet dew, so that this Crimson
      Pearl Grass was able to prolong its years. Afterwards, having received the essence
      of Heaven and Earth, and been nourished by rain and dew, it was able to cast
      off its herbaceous womb and wooden substance, and exchange it for the human
      form; it cultivated itself into the shape of a girl, and all day long wandered
      beyond the Heaven of Parting Sorrow; when hungry she ate the sweet green fruit
      as her food, and when thirsty she drank the waters of the Sea of Grief as her
      soup. But because she had not yet requited the kindness of the watering, there
      was knotted within her breast a feeling of endless lingering affection. And
      just now it happened that this Shenying Attendant's mortal heart was suddenly
      inflamed, and taking advantage of this bright and peaceful age he wished to
      descend into the world and pass through a dream-fated union; and he has already
      put his name on the roll before the Fairy of Disenchantment. The Fairy of Disenchantment
      also asked him about it, saying that the debt of the watering was not yet repaid,
      and that this would be a good opportunity to settle it. And the Crimson Pearl
      Fairy said: 'His was the grace of sweet dew, and I have no such water wherewith
      to repay him. Since he is to go down into the world as a man, I too will go
      down into the world as a man; and if I give him back all the tears of my whole
      life, that too will repay him.' It is on account of this one matter that so
      many amorous foes have been drawn out, to bear them company and bring this case
      to an end." The Taoist said: "Truly it is rarely heard. I have indeed never
      heard of the notion of returning tears. I fancy this story is more minute and
      delicate than any tale of love of past ages." The monk said: "The amorous persons
      of past ages have had only their general outlines handed down, together with
      their poems and verses; as for the drinking and eating within the family and
      the women's apartments, these have never been recorded. Moreover, most tales
      of love are nothing but stealing fragrance and filching jade, secret trysts
      and elopements, and have never given vent to any part of the true feelings of
      men and women. I think that when this company of people enter the world, their
      infatuations of feeling and ghosts of lust, their worth and their folly, their
      goodness and their worthlessness, will all be different from those handed down
      by men of former times." The Taoist said: "Since that is so, why should we not
      likewise go down into the world and convert a few souls? Would it not be a work
      of merit?" The monk said: "That agrees with my own mind. Do you come with me
      to the palace of the Fairy of Disenchantment, and settle the account of the
      stupid thing; and when this company of amorous spirits of sin have all been
      born into the world, we two will go. As it is, though half of them have already
      fallen into the dust, the number is not yet complete." The Taoist said: "If
      that is so, I will follow you."
    type: dialogue
    emotion:
    - formal
    - serious
    - romantic
    status: initial
    context: '第一回 甄士隱夢幻識通靈 賈雨村風塵怀閨秀 / chapter 1. Paragraph 7 of the chapter, aligned
      by index and verified (14 of 27 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 當日地陷東南，這東南一隅有處曰姑蘇，有城曰閶門者，最是紅塵中一
      二等富貴風流之地．這閶門外有個十里街，街內有個仁清巷，巷內有個古廟 ，因地方窄狹，人皆呼作葫蘆廟．廟旁住著一家鄉宦… Following segment:
      卻說甄士隱俱听得明白，但不知所云"蠢物"系何東西．遂不禁上前施禮 ，笑問道：“二仙師請了。”那僧道也忙答禮相問．士隱因說道：“适聞仙 師所談因果，實人世罕聞者．但弟子愚濁，不能洞…'
  - id: chapter-1-008
    source: 卻說甄士隱俱听得明白，但不知所云"蠢物"系何東西．遂不禁上前施禮 ，笑問道：“二仙師請了。”那僧道也忙答禮相問．士隱因說道：“适聞仙 師所談因果，實人世罕聞者．但弟子愚濁，不能洞悉明白，若蒙大開痴頑，
      備細一聞，弟子則洗耳諦听，稍能警省，亦可免沉倫之苦。”二仙笑道：“ 此乃玄机不可預泄者．到那時不要忘我二人，便可跳出火坑矣。”士隱听了 ，不便再問．因笑道：“玄机不可預泄，但适云`蠢物'，不知為何，或可一
      見否？"那僧道：“若問此物，倒有一面之緣。”說著，取出遞与士隱．士 隱接了看時，原來是塊鮮明美玉，上面字跡分明，鐫著"通靈寶玉"四字，后 面還有几行小字．正欲細看時，那僧便說已到幻境，便強從手中奪了去，与
      道人竟過一大石牌坊，上書四個大字，乃是"太虛幻境"．兩邊又有一幅對聯 ，道是：
    target: >-
      Now to return to Zhen Shiyin: he had heard it all clearly, but did not know
      what the "stupid thing" spoken of could be. He could not refrain from stepping
      forward and making his salutation, and asked with a smile: "Greetings, my two
      immortal masters." The monk and the Taoist also hastened to return his greeting
      and to ask after him. Shiyin then said: "I have just heard my masters speak
      of cause and effect, such as is truly rarely heard in the world of men. But
      your disciple is dull and muddy, and cannot see it clearly. If you would be
      so kind as to open wide my stupid understanding, and let me hear it all in detail,
      your disciple will wash his ears and listen attentively; and if I can thereby
      be a little awakened, I may also escape the bitterness of sinking into perdition."
      The two immortals laughed and said: "This is a mystery of Heaven, not to be
      disclosed beforehand. When that time comes, do not forget the two of us, and
      you may leap out of the pit of fire." Hearing this, Shiyin did not venture to
      ask again. So he smiled and said: "Since the mystery may not be disclosed beforehand,
      yet you spoke just now of a 'stupid thing'; I do not know what it is — perhaps
      I might be allowed a look at it?" The monk said: "If you would ask about this
      thing, it happens that you have a destiny to see it once." So saying, he brought
      it out and handed it to Shiyin. Shiyin took it and looked: it was a piece of
      bright and beautiful jade, on which the writing was clear, engraved with the
      four characters, "Precious Jade of Spiritual Perception," and behind it were
      several lines of small characters. He was just about to look closely, when the
      monk said that they had already reached the Realm of Illusion, and forcibly
      snatched it from his hand; and with the Taoist he passed over a great stone
      archway, on which were written four large characters: "The Illusory Realm of
      the Great Void." On either side there was also a couplet, which ran:
    type: narration
    emotion:
    - formal
    - curious
    - serious
    status: initial
    context: '第一回 甄士隱夢幻識通靈 賈雨村風塵怀閨秀 / chapter 1. Paragraph 8 of the chapter, aligned
      by index and verified (14 of 27 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 一日，炎夏永晝，士隱于書房閒坐，至手倦拋書，伏几少憩，不覺朦朧
      睡去．夢至一處，不辨是何地方．忽見那廂來了一僧一道，且行且談．只听 道人問道：“你攜了這蠢物，意欲何往？"那僧笑道… Following segment:
      這士隱正痴想，忽見隔壁葫蘆廟內寄居的一個窮儒-姓賈名化，表字時 飛，別號雨行者走了出來．這賈雨村原系胡州人氏，也是詩書仕宦之族，因 他生于末世，父母祖宗根基已盡，人口衰喪，只剩得…'
  - id: chapter-1-009
    source: 這士隱正痴想，忽見隔壁葫蘆廟內寄居的一個窮儒-姓賈名化，表字時 飛，別號雨行者走了出來．這賈雨村原系胡州人氏，也是詩書仕宦之族，因 他生于末世，父母祖宗根基已盡，人口衰喪，只剩得他一身一口，在家鄉無
      益，因進京求取功名，再整基業．自前歲來此，又淹蹇住了，暫寄廟中安身 ，每日賣字作文為生，故士隱常与他交接．當下雨村見了士隱，忙施禮陪笑 道：“老先生倚門佇望，敢是街市上有甚新聞否？"士隱笑道：“非也．适
      因小女啼哭，引他出來作耍，正是無聊之甚，兄來得正妙，請入小齋一談， 彼此皆可消此永晝。”說著，便令人送女儿進去，自与雨村攜手來至書房中 ．小童獻茶．方談得三五句話，忽家人飛報：“嚴老爺來拜。”士隱慌的忙
      起身謝罪道：“恕誑駕之罪，略坐，弟即來陪。”雨村忙起身亦讓道：“老 先生請便．晚生乃常造之客，稍候何妨。”說著，士隱已出前廳去了．
    target: >-
      While Shiyin was thus lost in foolish musing, he suddenly saw coming out a poor
      scholar who lodged in the Gourd Temple next door — one surnamed Jia, named Hua,
      whose courtesy-name was Shifei, and whose other name was Yucun. This Jia Yucun
      was originally a native of Huzhou, and was likewise of a family of letters and
      of official rank; but because he was born in a degenerate age, when the foundations
      of his parents and ancestors had come to an end and the family had decayed,
      so that he alone was left, one body and one mouth, and there was no profit for
      him in his native place, he had come to the capital to seek rank and fame and
      to set his house in order again. Since his arrival the year before he had again
      been detained by mischance, and had lodged for a time in the temple to shelter
      himself; and every day he earned a living by writing characters and composing
      pieces, so that Shiyin often had dealings with him. Now when Yucun saw Shiyin,
      he hastened to make his salutation, and with a smiling face said: "Venerable
      sir, you are leaning at your gate and gazing out — may there be some news in
      the market street?" Shiyin laughed and said: "No, indeed. It was only that just
      now my little daughter was crying, and I brought her out to play; and I was
      in truth exceedingly bored. Your coming is most opportune. Pray come into my
      little study and we will talk, and each of us may while away this long day."
      So saying, he bade someone carry his daughter in, and himself, hand in hand
      with Yucun, went into the study. A small boy served tea. They had talked only
      three or five sentences when a servant came flying to report: "Mr. Yan has come
      to pay his respects." Shiyin, flustered, rose at once and begged pardon, saying:
      "Forgive me the crime of deceiving your honoured visit; sit a little while,
      and I will come at once to keep you company." Yucun also rose hastily and said:
      "Pray do as you please, venerable sir. I am a frequent guest; what harm in
      waiting a while?" As he spoke, Shiyin had already gone out to the front hall.
    type: narration
    emotion:
    - formal
    - neutral
    status: initial
    context: '第一回 甄士隱夢幻識通靈 賈雨村風塵怀閨秀 / chapter 1. Paragraph 9 of the chapter, aligned
      by index and verified (14 of 27 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 卻說甄士隱俱听得明白，但不知所云"蠢物"系何東西．遂不禁上前施禮
      ，笑問道：“二仙師請了。”那僧道也忙答禮相問．士隱因說道：“适聞仙 師所談因果，實人世罕聞者．但弟子愚濁，不能洞… Following segment:
      一日，早又中秋佳節．士隱家宴已畢，乃又另具一席于書房，卻自己步 月至廟中來邀雨村．原來雨村自那日見了甄家之婢曾回顧他兩次，自為是個 知己，便時刻放在心上．今又正值中秋，不免對月有…'
  - id: chapter-1-010
    source: 一日，早又中秋佳節．士隱家宴已畢，乃又另具一席于書房，卻自己步 月至廟中來邀雨村．原來雨村自那日見了甄家之婢曾回顧他兩次，自為是個 知己，便時刻放在心上．今又正值中秋，不免對月有怀，因而口占五言一律
      云：
    target: >-
      One day the Mid-Autumn Festival had come round again. When the family feast
      at Shiyin's house was over, he had a separate table laid in his study, and himself
      walked by moonlight to the temple to invite Yucun. Now Yucun, ever since the
      day when he had seen the maid of the Zhen household turn and look back at him
      twice, had taken her for one who understood him, and had kept her constantly
      in his heart. And now that it was again Mid-Autumn, he could not but be moved
      by the moon, and so he recited impromptu a regulated verse in five-character
      lines, as follows:
    type: narration
    emotion:
    - formal
    - romantic
    - nostalgic
    status: initial
    context: '第一回 甄士隱夢幻識通靈 賈雨村風塵怀閨秀 / chapter 1. Paragraph 10 of the chapter, aligned
      by index and verified (14 of 27 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 這士隱正痴想，忽見隔壁葫蘆廟內寄居的一個窮儒-姓賈名化，表字時
      飛，別號雨行者走了出來．這賈雨村原系胡州人氏，也是詩書仕宦之族，因 他生于末世，父母祖宗根基已盡，人口衰喪，只剩得… Following segment:
      蟾光如有意，先上玉人樓．雨村吟罷，因又思及平生抱負，苦未逢時， 乃又搔首對天長歎，复高吟一聯曰：'
  - id: chapter-1-011
    source: 蟾光如有意，先上玉人樓．雨村吟罷，因又思及平生抱負，苦未逢時， 乃又搔首對天長歎，复高吟一聯曰：
    target: >-
      "If the moonlight has any feeling, let it first climb the maiden's tower." When
      Yucun had finished chanting, he thought again of the ambition of his life, and
      of his bitter failure to meet the times; and so he scratched his head and sighed
      long at the sky, and once more chanted aloud a couplet, saying:
    type: narration
    emotion:
    - formal
    - sad
    - anxious
    status: initial
    context: '第一回 甄士隱夢幻識通靈 賈雨村風塵怀閨秀 / chapter 1. Paragraph 11 of the chapter, aligned
      by index and verified (14 of 27 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 一日，早又中秋佳節．士隱家宴已畢，乃又另具一席于書房，卻自己步
      月至廟中來邀雨村．原來雨村自那日見了甄家之婢曾回顧他兩次，自為是個 知己，便時刻放在心上．今又正值中秋，不免對月有… Following segment:
      可巧這日拄了拐杖掙挫到街前散散心時，忽見那邊來了一個跛足道人， 瘋癲落脫，麻屣鶉衣，口內念著几句言詞，道是：'
  - id: chapter-1-012
    source: 可巧這日拄了拐杖掙挫到街前散散心時，忽見那邊來了一個跛足道人， 瘋癲落脫，麻屣鶉衣，口內念著几句言詞，道是：
    target: >-
      It happened by the merest chance that on this day, leaning on a staff, he struggled
      to the front of the street to divert his mind a little, when he suddenly saw
      coming from that direction a lame Taoist, mad and slovenly, in hempen sandals
      and a coat of quail-feather patchwork, muttering a few words to himself, which
      were:
    type: narration
    emotion:
    - formal
    - curious
    - serious
    status: initial
    context: '第一回 甄士隱夢幻識通靈 賈雨村風塵怀閨秀 / chapter 1. Paragraph 12 of the chapter, aligned
      by index and verified (14 of 27 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 蟾光如有意，先上玉人樓．雨村吟罷，因又思及平生抱負，苦未逢時，
      乃又搔首對天長歎，复高吟一聯曰： Following segment: 痴心父母古來多，孝順儿孫誰見了？士隱听了，便迎上來道：“你滿口 說些什么？只听見些`好''`了''`好''`了''．那道人笑道：“你若果听見`好''`
      了''二字，還算你明白．可知世上万般，…'
  - id: chapter-1-013
    source: 痴心父母古來多，孝順儿孫誰見了？士隱听了，便迎上來道：“你滿口 說些什么？只听見些`好'`了'`好'`了'．那道人笑道：“你若果听見`好'`
      了'二字，還算你明白．可知世上万般，好便是了，了便是好．若不了，便 不好，若要好，須是了．我這歌儿，便名《好了歌》"士隱本是有宿慧的， 一聞此言，心中早已徹悟．因笑道：“且住！待我將你這《好了歌》解注出
      來何如？"道人笑道：“你解，你解。”士隱乃說道：
    target: >-
      "Infatuated parents there have been since old; dutiful sons and grandsons —
      who has ever seen them?" When Shiyin heard this, he went up to him and said:
      "What is it that you are saying all this time? I hear nothing but 'Good' and
      'Done,' 'Good' and 'Done.'" The Taoist laughed and said: "If you truly heard
      the two words 'Good' and 'Done,' then you are still a man of understanding.
      Know that in all things under heaven, good means done, and done means good.
      If it is not done, then it is not good; and if it is to be good, it must be
      done. This song of mine is called the Song of Good and Done." Shiyin had ever
      possessed an intuitive wisdom, and at these words his heart was at once thoroughly
      enlightened. So he laughed and said: "Stay! Let me expound and annotate your
      Song of Good and Done for you — what say you?" The Taoist laughed and said:
      "Expound it, expound it." Then Shiyin said:
    type: dialogue
    emotion:
    - curious
    - serious
    - formal
    status: initial
    context: '第一回 甄士隱夢幻識通靈 賈雨村風塵怀閨秀 / chapter 1. Paragraph 13 of the chapter, aligned
      by index and verified (14 of 27 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 可巧這日拄了拐杖掙挫到街前散散心時，忽見那邊來了一個跛足道人，
      瘋癲落脫，麻屣鶉衣，口內念著几句言詞，道是： Following segment: 陋室空堂，當年笏滿床，衰草枯楊，曾為歌舞場．蛛絲儿結滿雕梁，綠 紗今又糊在蓬窗上．說什么脂正濃，粉正香，如何兩鬢又成霜？昨日黃土隴
      頭送白骨，今宵紅燈帳底臥鴛鴦．金滿箱，銀滿箱，…'
  - id: chapter-1-014
    source: 陋室空堂，當年笏滿床，衰草枯楊，曾為歌舞場．蛛絲儿結滿雕梁，綠 紗今又糊在蓬窗上．說什么脂正濃，粉正香，如何兩鬢又成霜？昨日黃土隴 頭送白骨，今宵紅燈帳底臥鴛鴦．金滿箱，銀滿箱，展眼乞丐人皆謗．正歎
      他人命不長，那知自己歸來喪！訓有方，保不定日后作強梁．擇膏粱，誰承 望流落在煙花巷！因嫌紗帽小，致使鎖枷杠，昨怜破襖寒，今嫌紫蟒長：亂 烘烘你方唱罷我登場，反認他鄉是故鄉．甚荒唐，到頭來都是為他人作嫁衣
      裳！那瘋跛道人听了，拍掌笑道：“解得切，解得切！"士隱便說一聲"走罷 ！"將道人肩上褡褳搶了過來背著，竟不回家，同了瘋道人飄飄而去．當下 烘動街坊，眾人當作一件新聞傳說．封氏聞得此信，哭個死去活來，只得与
      父親商議，遣人各處訪尋，那討音信？無奈何，少不得依靠著他父母度日． 幸而身邊還有兩個舊日的丫鬟伏侍，主仆三人，日夜作些針線發賣，幫著父 親用度．那封肅雖然日日抱怨，也無可奈何了．
    target: >-
      "Mean rooms and empty halls, where once the tablets of office lay thick upon
      the bed; withered grass and dead willows, where once the song and dance held
      sway. Spider-webs now cover the carved beams, and green silk is pasted on the
      poor man's window. What avails it to say that rouge is thick and powder sweet,
      when the hair at the temples has turned to frost? Yesterday the white bones were
      seen off at the mound of yellow earth; tonight beneath the red lantern the lovebirds
      lie in bed. Gold fills the chest and silver fills the chest, yet in the twinkling
      of an eye he is a beggar whom all revile. While you sigh that another's life
      is short, who knows that your own end has come? Though children be trained aright,
      who can be sure they will not turn robbers? Though one choose a mate of wealth
      and rank, who would have thought she would fall into the street of flowers?
      Because you thought your gauze cap too small, you brought the cangue and the
      chain upon you; yesterday you pitied the cold of a ragged coat, today you complain
      that the purple robe is too long. In noisy confusion, one has hardly finished
      singing before the other steps upon the stage, and you take a foreign land for
      your own home. How absurd it all is — in the end it is only making wedding clothes
      for other people!" When the mad lame Taoist heard this, he clapped his hands
      and laughed: "Well expounded, well expounded!" And Shiyin cried out, "Let us
      go!" and, snatching the bundle of cloth from the Taoist's shoulder, he carried
      it on his own back, and without going home at all went off with the mad Taoist,
      floating away. The neighbourhood was thereby set in a stir, and everyone passed
      it about as a piece of news. When his wife, of the Feng family, heard the tidings,
      she wept herself into a swoon; she could do no more than take counsel with her
      father and send people everywhere to search for him, but what tidings could
      they get? There was no help for it; she had no choice but to depend on her parents
      for her daily living. Fortunately she still had two old maidservants to wait
      upon her, and mistress and servants, the three of them, plied their needles
      day and night and sold the work, to help her father's expenses. And though Feng
      Su grumbled every day, there was nothing he could do.
    type: monologue
    emotion:
    - sad
    - serious
    - nostalgic
    - formal
    status: initial
    context: '第一回 甄士隱夢幻識通靈 賈雨村風塵怀閨秀 / chapter 1. Paragraph 14 of the chapter, aligned
      by index and verified (14 of 27 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 痴心父母古來多，孝順儿孫誰見了？士隱听了，便迎上來道：“你滿口
      說些什么？只听見些`好''`了''`好''`了''．那道人笑道：“你若果听見`好''` 了''二字，還算你明白．可知世上万般，…'