{
  "chapter-1": {
    "chapter-1-001": "This is the opening chapter of the book. The author says of himself: Having once passed through a dreamlike illusion, he concealed the true events and, borrowing the tale of the 'Spiritual Stone,' wrote this book, The Story of the Stone. Hence he uses the name 'Zhen Shiyin.' But what events and what persons are recorded in the book? He says again: 'Now, in the dusty turmoil of the world, having accomplished nothing, I suddenly recalled all the women of former days and examined them one by one. I felt that their conduct and understanding were all above mine. Why should I, a full-grown man, truly be inferior to those women? Shame is indeed more than I can bear, and repentance is of no use on this day when there is no help for it! At such a time, I wished to set down the days when I relied on Heaven's grace and my ancestors' virtue, when I wore brocade and fine silk and ate sweet and rich food, yet betrayed the debt of my father's and elder brother's teaching and the guidance of teachers and friends, and to record the guilt of my half-life's failure, so as to tell the world: my guilt is indeed unavoidable, but there have always been outstanding women in the inner chambers. I must not, because of my own unworthiness, shield my shortcomings and let them all be lost. Though now I have thatched eaves and bramble windows, a tile stove and a rope bed, morning and evening wind and dew, willows by the steps and flowers in the courtyard, none of this hinders my heart and brush. Though I am unlearned and my writing lacks polish, what harm is there in using rustic speech and invented words to unfold a story? It may make the women known to the world, please the eye, and dispel sorrow—is that not fitting?' Hence he uses the name 'Jia Yucun.'",
    "chapter-1-002": "In this chapter, all the use of such words as 'dream' and 'illusion' is meant to alert the reader's eye; it is also the fundamental purpose of this book.",
    "chapter-1-003": "It happened that when Nüwa smelted stones to repair the sky, on the Great Fable Mountain, at the Unfathomable Cliff, she smelted thirty-six thousand five hundred and one stubborn stones, each twelve zhang high and twenty-four zhang square. Nüwa used thirty-six thousand five hundred of them, leaving only one unused, which she cast down at the foot of Blue Ridge Peak on that mountain. Who would have thought that after this stone had been smelted, it had gained spiritual understanding? Seeing that all the other stones were chosen to repair the sky, while it alone was unfit for selection, it lamented its own fate, sighing and grieving day and night in shame.",
    "chapter-1-004": "The Taoist of Emptiness then said to the stone, 'Brother Stone, by your own account this story of yours has something interesting in it, which is why you wrote it here, hoping to pass it down to the world as a tale of wonder. But in my view, first, there is no dynasty or date to verify it; second, it contains no great sages or loyal ministers who ordered the court and reformed morals. It has only a few unusual women—some sentimental, some foolish, with small talents and slight virtues—and none with the virtue and ability of Ban Zhao or Cai Yan. Even if I copied it and took it out, I fear the world would not care to read it.' The stone laughed and replied, 'How foolish you are, master! If you say there is no dynasty to verify, why not simply borrow the reign titles of Han or Tang and add them? What difficulty would there be? But I think all the unofficial histories of the past follow the same rut. Better mine, which does not borrow that formula, and is instead fresh and distinctive. All it does is take the essential nature of events—why must it be bound to dynasty and date? Moreover, among townsfolk few like books on statecraft and moral order; most love amusing, leisurely writings. Past unofficial histories either slander rulers and ministers or denigrate other men's wives and daughters; their lewdness and cruelty are too many to count. There is another kind of erotic writing, obscene and filthy, poisonous to the minds of the young, also too many to count. As for the books of beauties and geniuses, a thousand volumes are all cut from one pattern, and they cannot avoid lewdness, so that the page is filled with Pan An, Cao Zhi, Xi Shi, and Zhuo Wenjun. It is only that the author wants to display two sentimental poems and flowery rhapsodies of his own, so he invents names for a man and a woman, and must bring in a petty villain to stir trouble between them, like a clown in a play. And the maidservants open their mouths with classical tags, always literary or moral. Looked at one by one, they are all self-contradictory and quite unreasonable. They are not as good as these few women I have seen and heard with my own eyes in half a lifetime. I do not presume to say they surpass all the people in earlier books, but their story, in its entirety, can dispel sorrow and break boredom, and there are a few poor poems and familiar sayings that can make one laugh and serve as wine talk. As for partings and reunions, joys and sorrows, rise and fall and fortunes, I have followed the traces and dared not add the slightest fabrication, merely to please men's eyes and thereby lose the true transmission. People today—the poor are daily burdened by food and clothing, the rich harbor dissatisfied hearts—even if they have a little leisure, they are greedy for lust and pleasure, fond of goods and seeking worries. Where would they find time to read books on statecraft? So I do not wish the world to call this story marvelous, nor do I insist that people delight in reading it. I only wish that when they are drunk with pleasure and lying full, or when avoiding the world and fleeing sorrow, they might take it up for amusement. Would it not save them some lifespan and strength? Compared with scheming after illusions and chasing falsehood, it would also save them the harm of gossip and quarrels and the bustle of running about. Moreover, it may give the world new eyes, unlike those old manuscripts that pull things together at random, separate and meet by turns, filling pages with talents and beauties, Cao Zhi, Zhuo Wenjun, Hongniang, Xiaoyu, and all the rest of the worn-out set. What do you think, master?'",
    "chapter-1-005": "When the Taoist of Emptiness heard this, he thought for a long while, then read through The Story of the Stone again. Although it contained some words pointing out treachery, condemning flatterers, denouncing evil, and punishing wickedness, it had no intent to wound the age or curse the world; and wherever it touched on the proper relations—sovereign benevolent, minister loyal, father kind, son filial—it praised virtue and extolled merit with endless affection, truly beyond comparison with other books. Although its main discussions were no more than a true record of events, not false inventions and empty claims, nor comparable to those works of mere lewd invitations and secret trysts. Since it did not touch upon the times at all, he copied it from beginning to end and took it out to publish as a tale of wonder. Thereafter, because the Taoist of Emptiness saw form in emptiness, and from form produced feeling, transmitted feeling into form, and from form awakened to emptiness, he changed his name to the Monk of Feeling, and renamed The Story of the Stone The Record of the Monk of Feeling. Kong Meixi of Eastern Lu inscribed it as The Precious Mirror of Wind and Moon. Later, because Cao Xueqin, in the Mourning-the-Red Studio, read it for ten years, revised and deleted five times, compiled a table of contents, and divided it into chapters and sections, he inscribed it as The Twelve Beauties of Jinling. He also wrote a quatrain:",
    "chapter-1-006": "In those days, when the earth sank in the southeast, in that southeastern corner there was a place called Gusu, and in it a city called Changmen, which was among the richest and most fashionable spots in the dusty world. Outside Changmen there was a Ten-Mile Street, in the street an Renqing Lane, and in the lane an old temple. Because the place was cramped and narrow, everyone called it the Gourd Temple. Beside the temple lived a country official named Zhen Fei, courtesy name Shiyin. His wife was of the Feng family, virtuous and gentle, deeply versed in propriety. Though the household was not very rich, the local people regarded it as a distinguished clan. Zhen Shiyin was by nature placid and indifferent, caring nothing for fame and rank; each day he took pleasure in viewing flowers, tending bamboos, pouring wine, and reciting poems—truly a man of immortal disposition. There was one lack: he was now past fifty, had no son, only a daughter whose childhood name was Yinglian, just three years old.",
    "chapter-1-007": "One day, in the long hours of a hot summer, Shiyin was sitting idly in his study. When his hand grew tired, he threw down his book and leaned on the desk for a short rest, and before he knew it he had dozed off into a hazy sleep. He dreamed that he came to a place whose name he could not tell. Suddenly he saw a monk and a Taoist coming from that direction, walking and talking. He heard the Taoist ask, 'Where are you taking that stupid creature?' The monk laughed and said, 'Don't worry. At present there is a case of love and romance that ought to be settled, and a company of romantic enemies has not yet been reborn into the world. Taking this opportunity, I will slip this stupid creature in among them and let him go through it all.' The Taoist said, 'So the romantic debts of late are going to be incarnated again to suffer their calamity? But I wonder in what place they will fall?' The monk laughed and said, 'This is amusing to tell—it is a rare matter unheard of through the ages. It is only that on the bank of the Spiritual River in the West, by the Three-Life Stone, there was a Crimson Pearl Grass. At that time the Attendant of the Divine Jade in the Palace of Red Jade watered it daily with sweet dew, and so the Crimson Pearl Grass was able to prolong its years. Later, having received the essence of Heaven and Earth and the nourishment of rain and dew, it was able to shed its grass-and-wood nature and change into human form; it cultivated only into a female body. All day she wandered beyond the Heaven of Parting Sorrow. When hungry, she ate the fruit of the honey-green tree; when thirsty, she drank the waters of the sea of sorrow. Because she had not yet repaid the debt of watering, there was knotted within her a lingering, unending feeling. Just now the Attendant of the Divine Jade's earthly heart flared up for a moment, and taking advantage of this bright and peaceful age, he wished to descend into the world to experience an illusory destiny. He has already registered before the fairy Disenchantment. Disenchantment also asked about the unpaid debt of watering, saying that this might be the chance to settle it. The Crimson Pearl Fairy said, 'He gave me the grace of sweet dew, but I have no such water to repay him. Since he is going down into the world as a man, I too will go down into the world as a woman. I will repay him with all the tears of my life, and that should be enough to repay him.' Because of this one matter, many romantic enemies have been drawn in to accompany them and bring the case to an end.' The Taoist said, 'This is indeed rarely heard. I have never heard of repaying tears. I suppose this story is more intricate and delicate than all the love tales of the past.' The monk said, 'The romantic figures of the past—only their general outlines and poems and essays have been transmitted; as for the food and drink in family inner chambers, none has ever been recorded. Moreover, most love stories are no more than stealing fragrance and jade, secret trysts and elopements; they have never given vent to the true feelings of boys and girls. I think when this company enters the world, their infatuations, their lusts, their worthiness and foolishness will all be different from what earlier writers have told.' The Taoist said, 'Since that is so, why don't you and I also descend into the world and save a few souls? Would that not be a merit?' The monk said, 'That suits my mind exactly. Come with me first to the palace of the fairy Disenchantment and deliver this stupid creature clearly. When this company of romantic ghosts has all been born into the world, you and I will go. Half of them have already fallen into the dust, but the whole set is not yet complete.' The Taoist said, 'If so, I will follow you.'",
    "chapter-1-008": "Now, as it happened, Zhen Shiyin heard all this clearly, but he did not know what the stupid creature they spoke of might be. Unable to resist, he stepped forward, saluted, and asked with a smile, 'Greetings, immortal masters.' The monk and Taoist quickly returned his greeting and inquired after him. Shiyin then said, 'I have just heard your talk of cause and effect, such as is rarely heard in the human world. But I am foolish and dull, and cannot fully understand. If you would be so kind as to open my stupid eyes and let me hear it in detail, I would listen respectfully, and if I could gain a little awakening, I might escape the suffering of sinking into perdition.' The two immortals smiled and said, 'This is a mystery that must not be revealed in advance. When the time comes, if you do not forget the two of us, you may escape the pit of fire.' Hearing this, Shiyin did not dare ask further. So he smiled and said, 'Since the mystery may not be revealed in advance, may I ask what the stupid creature you just mentioned is? Perhaps I might have a look at it?' The monk said, 'As for this thing, you do have a one-time affinity with it.' With that, he took it out and handed it to Shiyin. Shiyin received it and looked: it was a bright, beautiful piece of jade, with characters clearly engraved upon it, reading 'The Precious Jade of Spiritual Understanding,' and behind it were several lines of small characters. He was just about to examine it closely when the monk said they had arrived at the Illusory Realm, snatched it forcibly from his hand, and went with the Taoist past a great stone archway inscribed with four large characters: 'The Illusory Realm of Great Void.' On either side was a couplet, which read:",
    "chapter-1-009": "While Shiyin was still lost in his foolish thoughts, he suddenly saw a poor scholar who lodged in the Gourd Temple next door come walking out. His surname was Jia, given name Hua, courtesy name Shifei, and another style Yucun. This Jia Yucun was originally from Huzhou, also of a family of scholars and officials. Because he was born in a declining age, his parents and ancestors' foundations were gone, the family had withered, and only he was left, one person, one mouth. Having no prospects at home, he went to the capital to seek fame and rebuild the family fortunes. He had come here the year before, then been delayed and stranded, so he lodged temporarily in the temple, selling his calligraphy and writing to make a living. For this reason Shiyin often associated with him. Now, when Yucun saw Shiyin, he hurriedly saluted with a smile and said, 'Old gentleman, leaning by the gate and gazing afar—has there been some news in the market?' Shiyin smiled and said, 'No. Just now my little daughter was crying, so I brought her out to play. I was extremely bored, and your coming is most timely. Please come into my study and talk; we can both pass this long day.' With that, he sent his daughter inside and, taking Yucun's hand, led him to the study. A young servant offered tea. They had talked only three or five sentences when a servant came flying in to report, 'Master Yan has come to call.' Shiyin hurriedly rose and apologized, 'Forgive me for imposing on your visit. Sit a while; I will return to keep you company.' Yucun also rose quickly and said courteously, 'Please go ahead, old gentleman. I am a frequent guest; waiting a little is no trouble.' As he spoke, Shiyin had already gone out to the front hall.",
    "chapter-1-010": "One day, the Mid-Autumn Festival came again. After the family banquet was over, Shiyin prepared another table in his study, and then walked by moonlight to the temple to invite Yucun. Now, ever since the day Yucun had seen the Zhen family's maid turn and look back at him twice, he had taken her for a true confidante and kept her constantly in his heart. Now it was Mid-Autumn again, and he could not help feeling stirred by the moon, so he composed a five-character regulated verse:",
    "chapter-1-011": "'If the moonlight has any feeling, it will first climb the jade maiden's tower.' After Yucun had recited this, he thought again of his lifelong ambitions and his sorrow that he had not met the right time. He scratched his head, sighed long at the sky, and chanted another couplet aloud:",
    "chapter-1-012": "It happened that on this day, as he leaned on a staff and struggled to the street to distract himself, he suddenly saw a lame Taoist coming from that direction, mad and bedraggled, in straw sandals and ragged clothes, muttering a few words:",
    "chapter-1-013": "Infatuated parents have been many since olden times; who has ever seen filial children and grandchildren? When Shiyin heard this, he went up to him and said, 'What are you saying all this for? I hear only good and done, good and done.' The Taoist laughed and said, 'If you did indeed hear the words good and done, you are still somewhat clear-sighted. Know that in all things under heaven, good is done, and done is good. If not done, then not good; if you want good, you must be done. My song is called the Song of Good and Done.' Shiyin had always had a natural wisdom. Hearing these words, his heart was at once fully awakened. So he smiled and said, 'Wait! Let me write an interpretation of your Song of Good and Done; what do you say?' The Taoist laughed and said, 'You interpret, you interpret.' Shiyin then said:",
    "chapter-1-014": "'Mean rooms and empty halls, where once the court tablets filled the bed; withered grass and dead willows, where once were singing and dancing grounds. Spider webs cover the carved beams; green gauze now pasted on the bramble window. Why speak of rouge still thick and powder still fragrant, when the hair at the temples has turned to frost? Yesterday, on the yellow earth mound, they sent off white bones; tonight, under the red lantern and bed curtains, lie mandarin ducks. Gold fills the chest, silver fills the chest, and in a blink a beggar is mocked by all. While sighing that another's life is short, who knows that one's own end has come? Though trained with good principles, one cannot be sure he will not become a robber later. Though one chooses fine grain and rich food, who would expect to end in the pleasure quarter? Because a gauze cap seemed too small, one brought on the cangue and chains. Yesterday pitying a torn coat for its cold, today complaining that the purple python robe is too long. In noisy confusion, one finishes singing and the next mounts the stage; instead, a foreign land is taken for home. How absurd! In the end, all is making a bridal dress for someone else!' When the mad lame Taoist heard this, he clapped his hands and laughed, 'You have interpreted it well, you have interpreted it well!' Shiyin then said, 'Let us go!' He seized the bundle from the Taoist's shoulder, slung it on his own back, and without going home, went off floating away with the mad Taoist. At once the neighborhood was stirred, and everyone told it as a piece of news. When Madam Feng heard the news, she wept herself half dead and half alive, and could only consult with her father and send people everywhere to search, but what news did they find? There was no help for it; she had to rely on her parents for a living. Fortunately she still had two old maidservants by her side, and the three of them, mistress and servants, worked day and night at needlework to sell, helping her father with expenses. Though Feng Su grumbled every day, there was nothing he could do."
  }
}