<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<resources>
    <!--cliff:source: 此開卷第一回也．作者自云：因曾歷過一番夢幻之后，故將真事隱去， 而借"通靈"之說，撰此《石頭記》一書也．故曰"甄士隱"云云．但書中所記 何事何人？自又云：“今風塵碌碌，一事無成，忽念及當日所有之女子，一 一細考較去，覺其行止見識，皆出于我之上．何我堂堂須眉，誠不若彼裙釵 哉？實愧則有余，悔又無益之大無可如何之日也！當此，則自欲將已往所賴 天恩祖德，錦衣紈褲之時，飫甘饜肥之日，背父兄教育之恩，負師友規談之 德，以至今日一技無成，半生潦倒之罪，編述一集，以告天下人：我之罪固 不免，然閨閣中本自歷歷有人，万不可因我之不肖，自護己短，一并使其泯 滅也．雖今日之茅椽蓬牖，瓦灶繩床，其晨夕風露，階柳庭花，亦未有妨我 之襟怀筆墨者．雖我未學，下筆無文，又何妨用假語村言，敷演出一段故事 來，亦可使閨閣昭傳，复可悅世之目，破人愁悶，不亦宜乎？"故曰"賈雨村 "云云．-->
    <string name="chapter-1-001">This is the opening chapter of the book. The author says of himself: having once passed through a dream of illusion, he therefore concealed the true facts and, borrowing the tale of “spiritual understanding”, wrote this book, The Story of the Stone. Hence the name “Zhen Shiyin” [Truth Concealed], and so on. But what events and what persons are recorded in the book? He says again of himself: “Now, in the dust and toil of the world, having accomplished nothing, I suddenly bethought me of all the girls of former days and examined them one by one, and felt that their conduct and understanding were all above my own. Why should I, a full-grown man with a beard, be truly inferior to those girls? Truly my shame is more than enough, and regret is of no use on this day when there is no help for it! And so I wished to set down all that I formerly owed to the grace of Heaven and the virtue of my ancestors — the days of brocade and silk, of sweet and rich fare — my betrayal of a father\'s and brothers\' teaching and my failure in the duty owed to friends and teachers, and the guilt of a life half spent in failure with not one skill to my name: to write it all in a single volume and tell it to the world. My guilt is indeed not to be escaped; yet the women\'s quarters have always been full of worthy people, and I must on no account, because of my own unworthiness, shield my own shortcomings and let them all be blotted out. Though today I have thatch for rafters and matting for windows, an earthen stove and a rope bed, still the wind and dew of morning and evening, the willows by the steps and the flowers in the court, do nothing to hinder my heart or my brush. Though I am without learning and my pen has no polish, what harm is there in using idle words and rustic speech to spin out a tale? It may give the women\'s quarters their due fame, and it may also please the eyes of the world and dispel men\'s cares — is that not fitting?” Hence the name “Jia Yucun” [False Words Preserved], and so on.</string>
    <!--cliff:source: 此回中凡用“夢”用“幻”等字，是提醒閱者眼目，亦是此書立意本旨 ．-->
    <string name="chapter-1-002">In this chapter, every use of such words as “dream” and “illusion” is meant to alert the reader\'s eye; it is also the founding purpose of this book.</string>
    <!--cliff:source: 原來女媧氏煉石補天之時，于大荒山無稽崖練成高經十二丈，方經二十 四丈頑石三万六千五百零一塊．媧皇氏只用了三万六千五百塊，只單單剩了 一塊未用，便棄在此山青埂峰下．誰知此石自經段煉之后，靈性已通，因見 眾石俱得補天，獨自己無材不堪入選，遂自怨自歎，日夜悲號慚愧．-->
    <string name="chapter-1-003">Long ago, when the goddess Nüwa was smelting stones to mend the sky, she smelted at the Great Famine Mountain and the Absurd Cliff thirty-six thousand five hundred and one blocks of stubborn stone, each twelve feet high and twenty-four feet square. The goddess used only thirty-six thousand five hundred of them, leaving exactly one block unused, which she cast away at the foot of Blue Ridge Peak on that mountain. Who would have thought that this stone, after the smelting, had acquired spiritual understanding? Seeing that all the other stones had been chosen to mend the sky, while it alone, lacking the proper substance, was unfit for selection, it began to murmur against its own fate and to sigh, weeping and crying out in shame day and night.</string>
    <!--cliff:source: 空空道人遂向石頭說道：“石兄，你這一段故事，据你自己說有些趣味 ，故編寫在此，意欲問世傳奇．据我看來，第一件，無朝代年紀可考，第二 件，并無大賢大忠理朝廷治風俗的善政，其中只不過几個异樣女子，或情或 痴，或小才微善，亦無班姑，蔡女之德能．我縱抄去，恐世人不愛看呢。” 石頭笑答道：“我師何太痴耶！若云無朝代可考，今我師竟假借漢唐等年紀 添綴，又有何難？但我想，歷來野史，皆蹈一轍，莫如我這不借此套者，反 倒新奇別致，不過只取其事体情理罷了，又何必拘拘于朝代年紀哉！再者， 市井俗人喜看理治之書者甚少，愛适趣閒文者特多．歷來野史，或訕謗君相 ，或貶人妻女，奸淫凶惡，不可胜數．更有一种風月筆墨，其淫穢污臭，屠 毒筆墨，坏人子弟，又不可胜數．至若佳人才子等書，則又千部共出一套， 且其中終不能不涉于淫濫，以致滿紙潘安，子建，西子，文君，不過作者要 寫出自己的那兩首情詩艷賦來，故假擬出男女二人名姓，又必旁出一小人其 間撥亂，亦如劇中之小丑然．且鬟婢開口即者也之乎，非文即理．故逐一看 去，悉皆自相矛盾，大不近情理之話，竟不如我半世親睹親聞的這几個女子 ，雖不敢說強似前代書中所有之人，但事跡原委，亦可以消愁破悶，也有几 首歪詩熟話，可以噴飯供酒．至若离合悲歡，興衰際遇，則又追蹤躡跡，不 敢稍加穿鑿，徒為供人之目而反失其真傳者．今之人，貧者日為衣食所累， 富者又怀不足之心，縱然一時稍閒，又有貪淫戀色，好貨尋愁之事，那里去 有工夫看那理治之書？所以我這一段故事，也不愿世人稱奇道妙，也不定要 世人喜悅檢讀，只愿他們當那醉淫飽臥之時，或避世去愁之際，把此一玩， 豈不省了些壽命筋力？就比那謀虛逐妄，卻也省了口舌是非之害，腿腳奔忙 之．再者，亦令世人換新眼目，不比那些胡牽亂扯，忽离忽遇，滿紙才人 淑女，子建文君紅娘小玉等通共熟套之舊稿．我師意為何如？”-->
    <string name="chapter-1-004">Then Vanitas the Taoist said to the stone: “Brother Stone, this story of yours does, by your own account, have something of interest in it, and so you have written it here, hoping to hand it down to the world as a tale of wonder. As I see it, in the first place there is no dynasty or date to give it authority; in the second place there is no great sage or loyal minister whose good government brings order to the court and reforms the manners of the age. It contains nothing but a few unusual girls, some full of feeling, some foolish, some with a little talent or a little virtue, and none of them with the moral worth of a Lady Ban or a Cai Wenji. Even if I copied it out, I fear the world would not care to read it.” The stone laughed and answered: “How foolish you are, master! If you say there is no dynasty to be verified, what difficulty is there in borrowing the reign-titles of the Han or the Tang and tacking them on here and there? But it seems to me that the romances of the past have all trodden one and the same rut; better that mine should not borrow that worn-out device, and so be the newer and more distinctive for it. All that is needed is the truth of the matter and its natural reason — why must one be so bound by dynasty and date? Moreover, among the common folk of the market-place, few care to read books of moral governance, while many delight in pleasant, idle tales. The romances of the past either slandered rulers and ministers or degraded other men\'s wives and daughters; their lewdness and villainy are past counting. And there is another kind, the writings of wind and moon, whose obscenity and stench, whose poisoned brush, corrupt the young — these too are past counting. As for the books of beauties and men of genius, a thousand of them come out of a single mould, and in every one of them there is no keeping away from lewdness, till the page is full of Pan An, Cao Zhi, Xi Shi and Zhuo Wenjun — all because the author wants to show off his two love-poems and flowery rhapsodies. So he invents the names of a man and a woman, and must needs bring in a mean little person between them to stir up trouble, just like the clown in a play. And the maids and serving-girls speak in classical tags, all book-learning and moralizing. Read them one by one, and they are all self-contradictory, wholly implausible stuff. They cannot compare with these few girls whom I have seen and heard of all my life. I dare not say they are better than all the people in the books of former ages, but their story from first to last can dispel care and dissolve melancholy, and there are a few doggerel verses and common sayings in it to make one laugh and pass the wine around. As for the partings and meetings, the joys and sorrows, the rise and fall and the turns of fortune, these follow close on the real traces, and I dare not add a hair\'s-breadth of invention, merely to please men\'s eyes and so lose the true record. Men today — the poor are burdened day after day by food and clothing, the rich are never content at heart; and even when they have a moment\'s leisure, they are greedy after lust and lechery, covetous of goods and seeking after cares. Where would they find the time to read books of moral governance? That is why I do not wish this tale of mine to be praised as wonderful, nor do I insist that the world should delight to read it; I only wish that when men are drunk with lust and lie replete, or when they would flee the world and put away their cares, they might take it up and amuse themselves with it — would that not save them a little of their health and strength? Better than scheming after vanities and chasing delusions, it also saves them the harm of gossip and quarrels and the fatigue of running about on their feet. Moreover, it lets the world see with new eyes, unlike those old manuscripts that drag things in by the hair, with meetings and partings at random, pages full of beauties and fine ladies, all the worn-out commonplaces of Cao Zhi and Zhuo Wenjun, Hongniang and Xiaoyu. What does my master think of it?”</string>
    <!--cliff:source: 空空道人听如此說，思忖半晌，將《石頭記》再檢閱一遍，因見上面雖 有些指奸責佞貶惡誅邪之語，亦非傷時罵世之旨，及至君仁臣良父慈子孝， 凡倫常所關之處，皆是稱功頌德，眷眷無窮，實非別書之可比．雖其中大旨 談論，亦不過實錄其事，又非假擬妄稱，一味淫邀艷約，私訂偷盟之可比． 因毫不干涉時世，方從頭至尾抄錄回來，問世傳奇．從此空空道人因空見色 ，由色生情，傳情入色，自色悟空，遂易名為情僧，改《石頭記》為《情僧 錄》．東魯孔梅溪則題曰《風月寶鑒》．后因曹雪芹于悼紅軒中披閱十載， 增刪五次，纂成目錄，分出章回，則題曰《金陵十二釵》．并題一絕云：-->
    <string name="chapter-1-005">When Vanitas heard this, he thought it over for a long while and then read The Story of the Stone through once more. He saw that, though it contained some words pointing at treachery, rebuking flattery, condemning evil and punishing wickedness, it was not intended to wound the times or rail against the world; and that wherever it touched on the duties of prince and subject, father and son, on all that belongs to the bonds of human relationship, it was full of praise of merit and praise of virtue, of an unwearying affection beyond the reach of other books. Though its main purport is no more than a true record of events, and not the false inventions and empty claims, the mere wanton invitations and amorous assignations, the secret pledges and stolen troths of other works, yet since it had no concern whatever with the times, he copied it out from beginning to end and took it away, to hand it down to the world as a tale of wonder. Thereafter Vanitas, seeing form in emptiness, begot feeling from form; passing feeling into form and waking to emptiness from form, he changed his name to Brother Amor and retitled The Story of the Stone as The Record of Brother Amor. Kong Meixi of Eastern Lu gave it the title The Mirror of Wind and Moon. Later, Cao Xueqin in the Mourning Red Studio read it over for ten years, revised it five times, drew up a table of contents and divided it into chapters, and gave it the title The Twelve Beauties of Jinling. He also wrote this quatrain:</string>
    <!--cliff:source: 當日地陷東南，這東南一隅有處曰姑蘇，有城曰閶門者，最是紅塵中一 二等富貴風流之地．這閶門外有個十里街，街內有個仁清巷，巷內有個古廟 ，因地方窄狹，人皆呼作葫蘆廟．廟旁住著一家鄉宦，姓甄，名費，字士隱 ．嫡妻封氏，情性賢淑，深明禮義．家中雖不甚富貴，然本地便也推他為望 族了．因這甄士隱稟性恬淡，不以功名為念，每日只以觀花修竹，酌酒吟詩 為樂，倒是神仙一流人品．只是一件不足：如今年已半百，膝下無儿，只有 一女，乳名喚作英蓮，年方三歲．-->
    <string name="chapter-1-006">In those days the earth sank in the south-east, and in that south-eastern corner there was a place called Gusu, and within it a city called Changmen, the very first and foremost spot of wealth and fashion in all the dusty world. Outside the Changmen gate there was a Ten-Li Street, in the street a Lane of Benevolence and Purity, and in the lane an ancient temple which, because the place was cramped and narrow, everyone called the Gourd Temple. Beside the temple dwelt a retired official of the district, whose surname was Zhen, whose name was Fei, and whose courtesy-name was Shiyin. His wife, of the Feng family, was virtuous and gentle by nature and deeply versed in propriety and right. Though the household was not greatly wealthy, yet in that place they were reckoned among the foremost families. For Zhen Shiyin was of a placid and unassuming temper and gave no thought to rank or fame; his daily pleasure was to look at flowers and tend bamboos, to pour wine and make poems. In character he was of the company of the immortals. Only one thing was lacking: he was now past fifty and had no son at his knee, but only a daughter whose milk-name was Yinglian, just three years old.</string>
    <!--cliff:source: 一日，炎夏永晝，士隱于書房閒坐，至手倦拋書，伏几少憩，不覺朦朧 睡去．夢至一處，不辨是何地方．忽見那廂來了一僧一道，且行且談．只听 道人問道：“你攜了這蠢物，意欲何往？"那僧笑道：“你放心，如今現有 一段風流公案正該了結，這一干風流冤家，尚未投胎入世．趁此机會，就將 此蠢物夾帶于中，使他去經歷經歷。”那道人道：“原來近日風流冤孽又將 造劫歷世去不成？但不知落于何方何處？"那僧笑道：“此事說來好笑，竟 是千古未聞的罕事．只因西方靈河岸上三生石畔，有絳珠草一株，時有赤瑕 宮神瑛侍者，日以甘露灌溉，這絳珠草始得久延歲月．后來既受天地精華， 复得雨露滋養，遂得脫卻草胎木質，得換人形，僅修成個女体，終日游于离 恨天外，饑則食蜜青果為膳，渴則飲灌愁海水為湯．只因尚未酬報灌溉之德 ，故其五內便郁結著一段纏綿不盡之意．恰近日這神瑛侍者凡心偶熾，乘此 昌明太平朝世，意欲下凡造歷幻緣，已在警幻仙子案前挂了號．警幻亦曾問 及，灌溉之情未償，趁此倒可了結的．那絳珠仙子道：`他是甘露之惠，我 并無此水可還．他既下世為人，我也去下世為人，但把我一生所有的眼淚還 他，也償還得過他了．'因此一事，就勾出多少風流冤家來，陪他們去了結 此案。”那道人道：“果是罕聞．實未聞有還淚之說．想來這一段故事，比 歷來風月事故更加瑣碎細膩了。”那僧道：“歷來几個風流人物，不過傳其 大概以及詩詞篇章而已，至家庭閨閣中一飲一食，總未述記．再者，大半風 月故事，不過偷香竊玉，暗約私奔而已，并不曾將儿女之真情發泄一二．想 這一干人入世，其情痴色鬼，賢愚不肖者，悉与前人傳述不同矣。”那道人 道：“趁此何不你我也去下世度脫几個，豈不是一場功德？"那僧道：“正 合吾意，你且同我到警幻仙子宮中，將蠢物交割清楚，待這一干風流孽鬼下 世已完，你我再去．如今雖已有一半落塵，然猶未全集。”道人道：“既如 此，便隨你去來。”-->
    <string name="chapter-1-007">One day, in the long hours of a hot summer, Shiyin was sitting at leisure in his study. His hand grew tired and he tossed his book aside; leaning on the desk for a short rest, he fell unawares into a drowsy sleep. He dreamed that he came to a place, and could not tell what place it was. Suddenly he saw coming from that side a monk and a Taoist, walking along and talking together. He heard the Taoist ask: “Where are you taking that stupid creature?” The monk laughed and said: “Set your mind at ease. There is at this moment a case of love that ought to be settled, and this company of amorous spirits have not yet been born into the world. I shall seize this opportunity to slip the stupid creature in amongst them and let him go and have experience of it.” The Taoist said: “So the amorous ones are to be born again of late and go through their calamity in the world? But I do not know where they will come down.” The monk laughed: “The story is a laughable one — truly the strangest thing ever heard of in all the ages. On the bank of the Magic River in the West, beside the Stone of Three Lives, there grew a Crimson Pearl Flower. And there was in the Palace of Red Jade a Gardener of the Divine Jade who watered it every day with sweet dew, so that the Crimson Pearl Flower lived on through many years. In time, having received the essence of Heaven and Earth and been nourished besides by wind and rain, it was able to shed its vegetable stock and woody substance and take on human form — a girl\'s body, no more — and roamed all day beyond the Heaven of Parting Sorrow; when hungry she ate the Green-honey Fruit for her meal, and when thirsty she drank the water of the Sea of Welling Grief for her soup. But because she had not yet repaid the kindness of the watering, a long and lingering sorrow lay heavy and unspent within her. And now of late the Gardener of the Divine Jade has felt his earthly heart suddenly ablaze, and taking advantage of this bright and peaceful age he wishes to descend into the world and pass through the illusions of mortal love; he has already entered his name in the records of the Goddess of Disenchantment. The Goddess herself asked him, since the debt of watering was still unpaid, whether this might not be the time to settle it. And the Crimson Pearl Spirit said: ‘He gave me the kindness of sweet dew, and I have no water wherewith to repay him. Since he is to go down into the world as a man, I too will go down as a man; and if I give him back all the tears of my whole life, that will be enough to repay him.’ And from this one cause have been drawn forth so many amorous spirits, to accompany them and bring this case to its end.” The Taoist said: “Truly it is seldom heard of. Indeed I never heard of a debt repaid with tears. This story, I suppose, will be more particular and more finely spun than any romance of the past.” The monk said: “Of the gallant figures of the past we are told no more than the broad outline and their poems and verses; of a cup drunk or a meal eaten in the family apartments nothing at all is ever recorded. Moreover, most love stories are no more than stolen scents and purloined jade, secret assignations and secret flights, and have never let out so much as a breath of the true feelings of young men and women. So when this company enter the world, their lovesick fools and lustful devils, their worthy and foolish, their good and bad, will all be unlike those handed down by earlier writers.” The Taoist said: “Then why should not you and I go down into the world as well and save a few of them? Would that not be a work of merit?” The monk said: “That is just what I had in mind. Come with me first to the palace of the Goddess of Disenchantment and hand over the stupid creature cleanly; and when this company of amorous spirits has all been born into the world, you and I will go too. Half of them have already come down to earth, but not all.” The Taoist said: “Since it is so, I will come along with you.”</string>
    <!--cliff:source: 卻說甄士隱俱听得明白，但不知所云"蠢物"系何東西．遂不禁上前施禮 ，笑問道：“二仙師請了。”那僧道也忙答禮相問．士隱因說道：“适聞仙 師所談因果，實人世罕聞者．但弟子愚濁，不能洞悉明白，若蒙大開痴頑， 備細一聞，弟子則洗耳諦听，稍能警省，亦可免沉倫之苦。”二仙笑道：“ 此乃玄机不可預泄者．到那時不要忘我二人，便可跳出火坑矣。”士隱听了 ，不便再問．因笑道：“玄机不可預泄，但适云`蠢物'，不知為何，或可一 見否？"那僧道：“若問此物，倒有一面之緣。”說著，取出遞与士隱．士 隱接了看時，原來是塊鮮明美玉，上面字跡分明，鐫著"通靈寶玉"四字，后 面還有几行小字．正欲細看時，那僧便說已到幻境，便強從手中奪了去，与 道人竟過一大石牌坊，上書四個大字，乃是"太虛幻境"．兩邊又有一幅對聯 ，道是：-->
    <string name="chapter-1-008">Now Shiyin had heard it all plainly, but he did not know what this “stupid creature” they spoke of could be. He could not refrain from stepping forward and making his bow, and asked with a smile: “I salute you, reverend immortals.” The monk and the Taoist made haste to return his greeting and inquire after him. Shiyin then said: “I have just heard you speak of cause and consequence, such as is indeed seldom heard of in the world of men. But I am a dull and muddy disciple and cannot understand it all clearly. If you would be so good as to open my foolish understanding and let me hear it in full detail, I would listen with all my ears, and if it woke me even a little, I might be spared the misery of sinking into perdition.” The two immortals laughed: “This is a hidden mystery that may not be revealed beforehand. But when the time comes, so long as you do not forget us two, you will be able to leap out of the fiery pit.” When Shiyin heard this, he did not press them further. So he laughed and said: “The mystery may not be revealed beforehand; but just now you spoke of a ‘stupid creature\', and I do not know what it is. Might I perhaps have a look at it?” The monk said: “If you ask about this object, you have indeed a predestined affinity for one meeting with it.” With that he took it out and handed it to Shiyin. Shiyin took it and looked: it was a piece of bright and lovely jade, the characters on it clear and distinct, engraved with the four words “Precious Jade of Spiritual Understanding”, and behind them several lines of small characters. Just as he was about to examine it closely, the monk said they had already reached the Land of Illusion, and snatched it from his hand by force; then with the Taoist he passed through a great stone archway, inscribed with four large characters, which were: “THE REALM OF GREAT ILLUSION”. On either side there was also a couplet, which read:</string>
    <!--cliff:source: 這士隱正痴想，忽見隔壁葫蘆廟內寄居的一個窮儒-姓賈名化，表字時 飛，別號雨行者走了出來．這賈雨村原系胡州人氏，也是詩書仕宦之族，因 他生于末世，父母祖宗根基已盡，人口衰喪，只剩得他一身一口，在家鄉無 益，因進京求取功名，再整基業．自前歲來此，又淹蹇住了，暫寄廟中安身 ，每日賣字作文為生，故士隱常与他交接．當下雨村見了士隱，忙施禮陪笑 道：“老先生倚門佇望，敢是街市上有甚新聞否？"士隱笑道：“非也．适 因小女啼哭，引他出來作耍，正是無聊之甚，兄來得正妙，請入小齋一談， 彼此皆可消此永晝。”說著，便令人送女儿進去，自与雨村攜手來至書房中 ．小童獻茶．方談得三五句話，忽家人飛報：“嚴老爺來拜。”士隱慌的忙 起身謝罪道：“恕誑駕之罪，略坐，弟即來陪。”雨村忙起身亦讓道：“老 先生請便．晚生乃常造之客，稍候何妨。”說著，士隱已出前廳去了．-->
    <string name="chapter-1-009">As Shiyin stood there lost in foolish reverie, he suddenly saw coming out a poor scholar who lodged in the Gourd Temple next door — his surname Jia, his name Hua, his courtesy-name Shifei, his familiar style Yucun. This Jia Yucun was by origin a man of Huzhou, and came of a family of scholars and officials. Because he was born in a declining age, when the foundations of his parents and ancestors were already exhausted and the family had dwindled away, till he alone remained, a single soul, he found no profit in staying in his native place, and so he set out for the capital to seek name and fame and rebuild the family fortunes. He had come here the year before last and had been stranded again, lodging for the time being in the temple, where he earned his living day by day by writing letters and composing documents. That was why Shiyin often had dealings with him. Now Yucun caught sight of Shiyin and made haste to bow and smile and say: “You are leaning at the gate and gazing out, sir; can there be some news in the market-place?” Shiyin laughed: “No. Just now my little girl was crying, and I brought her out to play; I was in truth deadly dull, and your coming is most timely. Pray come into my study and talk, and we may both pass this long day.” With that he had the child sent inside, and went hand in hand with Yucun into the study. A young servant offered tea. They had talked no more than three or four sentences when a servant came flying in to announce: “Old Mr. Yan has come to call.” Shiyin, flustered, rose at once and made his apologies: “Forgive me for cheating you of my company. Sit a while, and I will be back to keep you company.” Yucun too rose hastily and said: “Pray do as you please, sir. I am a frequent visitor here; a little waiting is no hardship.” And with that Shiyin had already gone out to the front hall.</string>
    <!--cliff:source: 一日，早又中秋佳節．士隱家宴已畢，乃又另具一席于書房，卻自己步 月至廟中來邀雨村．原來雨村自那日見了甄家之婢曾回顧他兩次，自為是個 知己，便時刻放在心上．今又正值中秋，不免對月有怀，因而口占五言一律 云：-->
    <string name="chapter-1-010">One day the Mid-Autumn Festival came round again. When the family feast was over, Shiyin had a separate table laid in his study, and then walked by moonlight to the temple to invite Yucun. For since the day when Yucun had seen the Zhen family\'s maid turn and look back at him twice, he had taken her for one who understood him, and kept her constantly in his heart. And now that the Mid-Autumn had come again, he could not but be stirred by the sight of the moon, and so he recited impromptu a regulated poem in the five-character metre:</string>
    <!--cliff:source: 蟾光如有意，先上玉人樓．雨村吟罷，因又思及平生抱負，苦未逢時， 乃又搔首對天長歎，复高吟一聯曰：-->
    <string name="chapter-1-011">“If the toad\'s light has any mind at all, / Let it climb first to the jade maiden\'s tower.” When Yucun had finished reciting, he thought again of the ambition of his whole life and of his bitter failure ever to meet his time; and scratching his head, he sighed long and loud at the sky, and chanted aloud a couplet:</string>
    <!--cliff:source: 可巧這日拄了拐杖掙挫到街前散散心時，忽見那邊來了一個跛足道人， 瘋癲落脫，麻屣鶉衣，口內念著几句言詞，道是：-->
    <string name="chapter-1-012">It so happened that on this day, leaning on a stick and struggling along, he had come to the front of the street to take his mind off his troubles, when he suddenly saw coming from that direction a lame Taoist, mad and unkempt, in hemp sandals and a ragged coat, muttering a few words to himself, which were:</string>
    <!--cliff:source: 痴心父母古來多，孝順儿孫誰見了？士隱听了，便迎上來道：“你滿口 說些什么？只听見些`好'`了'`好'`了'．那道人笑道：“你若果听見`好'` 了'二字，還算你明白．可知世上万般，好便是了，了便是好．若不了，便 不好，若要好，須是了．我這歌儿，便名《好了歌》"士隱本是有宿慧的， 一聞此言，心中早已徹悟．因笑道：“且住！待我將你這《好了歌》解注出 來何如？"道人笑道：“你解，你解。”士隱乃說道：-->
    <string name="chapter-1-013">“Fond-hearted parents there have been since olden days; / But who has ever seen a filial son or grandson?” When Shiyin heard this, he went up to him and said: “What is it you are saying so glibly? All I could hear was ‘good\' and ‘done\', ‘good\' and ‘done\'.” The Taoist laughed: “If you truly heard the words ‘good\' and ‘done\', then you may still be reckoned a man of understanding. You should know that of all things in the world, when a thing is good it is done, and when it is done it is good. If it is not done, it is not good; if you would have it good, it must be done. This song of mine is called the Won-Done Song.” Shiyin had always had an inborn wisdom, and at these words his heart was at once wholly enlightened. So he laughed and said: “Stay a moment! Let me make a commentary on your Won-Done Song — what do you say to that?” The Taoist laughed: “Make it, make it.” And Shiyin said:</string>
    <!--cliff:source: 陋室空堂，當年笏滿床，衰草枯楊，曾為歌舞場．蛛絲儿結滿雕梁，綠 紗今又糊在蓬窗上．說什么脂正濃，粉正香，如何兩鬢又成霜？昨日黃土隴 頭送白骨，今宵紅燈帳底臥鴛鴦．金滿箱，銀滿箱，展眼乞丐人皆謗．正歎 他人命不長，那知自己歸來喪！訓有方，保不定日后作強梁．擇膏粱，誰承 望流落在煙花巷！因嫌紗帽小，致使鎖枷杠，昨怜破襖寒，今嫌紫蟒長：亂 烘烘你方唱罷我登場，反認他鄉是故鄉．甚荒唐，到頭來都是為他人作嫁衣 裳！那瘋跛道人听了，拍掌笑道：“解得切，解得切！"士隱便說一聲"走罷 ！"將道人肩上褡褳搶了過來背著，竟不回家，同了瘋道人飄飄而去．當下 烘動街坊，眾人當作一件新聞傳說．封氏聞得此信，哭個死去活來，只得与 父親商議，遣人各處訪尋，那討音信？無奈何，少不得依靠著他父母度日． 幸而身邊還有兩個舊日的丫鬟伏侍，主仆三人，日夜作些針線發賣，幫著父 親用度．那封肅雖然日日抱怨，也無可奈何了．-->
    <string name="chapter-1-014">“Mean rooms and empty halls — / in former years the tablets of office lay thick upon the bed; / withered grass and faded willows — / here once were the scenes of song and dance. / Cobwebs hang thick on the carved beams, / and green silk is pasted now upon the matted window. / What use to speak of rich rouge and fragrant powder, / when the hair at the temples has turned to frost? / Yesterday the white bones were buried on the yellow earth mound, / tonight beneath the red lantern the love-birds lie in the bed. / Gold fills the chest and silver fills the chest, / yet in the twinkling of an eye he is a beggar whom all revile. / You sigh that another man\'s life is short, / little knowing that when you go home you will meet your own death! / Though a son be well taught, there is no assuring he will not turn to violence; / you choose a rich match for your daughter, and who would ever look for her to fall into the houses of joy? / Because a gauze cap seemed too small, a man came to the cangue and the prison cart; / yesterday he pitied the cold of a ragged coat, today he grumbles that the purple robe is too long. / In wild confusion, you have finished singing and I come on stage, / mistaking another\'s country for your own. / What nonsense it all is: in the end we are all sewing wedding garments for other people!” When the mad, lame Taoist heard this, he clapped his hands and laughed: “A true reading, a true reading!” And Shiyin said but the one word “Let us go!”, and snatching the bundle from the Taoist\'s shoulder he hoisted it on his own back, and without going home at all he drifted away with the mad Taoist into the distance. At once the neighbourhood was in a stir, and everyone told it abroad as a piece of news. When Mrs. Feng heard of it, she wept herself half dead, and could only take counsel with her father and send men to search for him everywhere; but what word of him could be found? There was nothing to be done; she must perforce depend upon her parents for her daily living. Fortunately she still had two old maidservants at her side, and mistress and servants, the three of them, worked day and night at needlework to sell it, helping to meet her father\'s expenses. And though Feng Su grumbled every day, there was nothing to be done about it.</string>
</resources>