/* cliff:source: 此開卷第一回也．作者自云：因曾歷過一番夢幻之后，故將真事隱去， 而借"通靈"之說，撰此《石頭記》一書也．故曰"甄士隱"云云．但書中所記 何事何人？自又云：“今風塵碌碌，一事無成，忽念及當日所有之女子，一 一細考較去，覺其行止見識，皆出于我之上．何我堂堂須眉，誠不若彼裙釵 哉？實愧則有余，悔又無益之大無可如何之日也！當此，則自欲將已往所賴 天恩祖德，錦衣紈褲之時，飫甘饜肥之日，背父兄教育之恩，負師友規談之 德，以至今日一技無成，半生潦倒之罪，編述一集，以告天下人：我之罪固 不免，然閨閣中本自歷歷有人，万不可因我之不肖，自護己短，一并使其泯 滅也．雖今日之茅椽蓬牖，瓦灶繩床，其晨夕風露，階柳庭花，亦未有妨我 之襟怀筆墨者．雖我未學，下筆無文，又何妨用假語村言，敷演出一段故事 來，亦可使閨閣昭傳，复可悅世之目，破人愁悶，不亦宜乎？"故曰"賈雨村 "云云． */
"chapter-1-001" = "This is the opening chapter of the book. So runs the author's own account: because he had once passed through a dream of illusion, he hid the true matter away, and borrowing the tale of \"spiritual understanding\", composed this book, The Story of the Stone. Hence the name \"Zhen Shiyin\", and so on. But what deeds and what persons does the book record? The author speaks again: “Now, amid the dusty turmoil of the world, having accomplished nothing, I suddenly recalled all the girls of former days; examining them one by one in detail, I felt that their conduct and insight were all above my own. How is it that I, a full-grown man, am truly no match for those women in skirts and hairpins? Shame I have in abundance, and regret is of no avail on such a day of utter helplessness! At this, I wished of myself to set down in one volume all that I once owed to Heaven's grace and my ancestors' virtue — the days of brocade and silk, of sweet and rich fare — and my betrayal of the kindness of my father's and brothers' teaching, and of the counsels of my masters and friends, down to this day of having mastered no single skill, and half a lifetime's ruin, and to tell it to all the world: my guilt I cannot escape, but the women's chambers have always held, one after another, persons of worth, and I must not, because of my own unworthiness, shield my own shortcomings and let them all be quenched along with me. Though today my rafters are thatch and my windows weeds, my stove of tile and my bed of rope, yet the morning and evening wind and dew, the willows by the steps and the flowers in the courtyard, in no way hinder my heart or my brush. Though I am unstudied and my pen has no grace, what harm is there in using borrowed words and rustic speech to unfold a tale? It may make the women's chambers known to the world, and may also please the eyes of the world and break men's gloom — is that not fitting?\" Hence the saying \"Jia Yucun\", and so on.";
/* cliff:source: 此回中凡用“夢”用“幻”等字，是提醒閱者眼目，亦是此書立意本旨 ． */
"chapter-1-002" = "In this chapter, the repeated use of such characters as “dream” and “illusion” is meant to alert the reader's eye and ear; it is also the essential purpose of this book.";
/* cliff:source: 原來女媧氏煉石補天之時，于大荒山無稽崖練成高經十二丈，方經二十 四丈頑石三万六千五百零一塊．媧皇氏只用了三万六千五百塊，只單單剩了 一塊未用，便棄在此山青埂峰下．誰知此石自經段煉之后，靈性已通，因見 眾石俱得補天，獨自己無材不堪入選，遂自怨自歎，日夜悲號慚愧． */
"chapter-1-003" = "It so happened that when Nüwa smelted stones to mend the sky, she refined at the Great Absurd Mountain, beneath the Unfathomable Crag, thirty-six thousand five hundred and one blocks of stubborn stone, each twelve spans high and twenty-four spans square. The Goddess Nüwa used only thirty-six thousand five hundred of them, leaving exactly one block unused, and cast it aside at the foot of Blue Ridge Peak on that same mountain. Little did she know that this stone, having been smelted and refined, had gained spiritual understanding; and seeing that all the other stones were found fit to mend the sky while it alone was of no use and unfit for selection, it began to complain of itself and sigh, crying out day and night in grief and shame.";
/* cliff:source: 空空道人遂向石頭說道：“石兄，你這一段故事，据你自己說有些趣味 ，故編寫在此，意欲問世傳奇．据我看來，第一件，無朝代年紀可考，第二 件，并無大賢大忠理朝廷治風俗的善政，其中只不過几個异樣女子，或情或 痴，或小才微善，亦無班姑，蔡女之德能．我縱抄去，恐世人不愛看呢。” 石頭笑答道：“我師何太痴耶！若云無朝代可考，今我師竟假借漢唐等年紀 添綴，又有何難？但我想，歷來野史，皆蹈一轍，莫如我這不借此套者，反 倒新奇別致，不過只取其事体情理罷了，又何必拘拘于朝代年紀哉！再者， 市井俗人喜看理治之書者甚少，愛适趣閒文者特多．歷來野史，或訕謗君相 ，或貶人妻女，奸淫凶惡，不可胜數．更有一种風月筆墨，其淫穢污臭，屠 毒筆墨，坏人子弟，又不可胜數．至若佳人才子等書，則又千部共出一套， 且其中終不能不涉于淫濫，以致滿紙潘安，子建，西子，文君，不過作者要 寫出自己的那兩首情詩艷賦來，故假擬出男女二人名姓，又必旁出一小人其 間撥亂，亦如劇中之小丑然．且鬟婢開口即者也之乎，非文即理．故逐一看 去，悉皆自相矛盾，大不近情理之話，竟不如我半世親睹親聞的這几個女子 ，雖不敢說強似前代書中所有之人，但事跡原委，亦可以消愁破悶，也有几 首歪詩熟話，可以噴飯供酒．至若离合悲歡，興衰際遇，則又追蹤躡跡，不 敢稍加穿鑿，徒為供人之目而反失其真傳者．今之人，貧者日為衣食所累， 富者又怀不足之心，縱然一時稍閒，又有貪淫戀色，好貨尋愁之事，那里去 有工夫看那理治之書？所以我這一段故事，也不愿世人稱奇道妙，也不定要 世人喜悅檢讀，只愿他們當那醉淫飽臥之時，或避世去愁之際，把此一玩， 豈不省了些壽命筋力？就比那謀虛逐妄，卻也省了口舌是非之害，腿腳奔忙 之．再者，亦令世人換新眼目，不比那些胡牽亂扯，忽离忽遇，滿紙才人 淑女，子建文君紅娘小玉等通共熟套之舊稿．我師意為何如？” */
"chapter-1-004" = "The Taoist of Emptiness therefore said to the stone: “Brother Stone, this tale of yours — by your own account it has a little interest in it, and so you have written it out here, hoping to publish it to the world as a marvel. But in my view, in the first place there is no dynasty or date to be verified; in the second, there is no great sage or great loyal minister whose good government set the court in order and reformed the customs; it contains nothing more than a few out-of-the-ordinary women, some amorous, some foolish, some of small talent and slight virtue, and not the least of the worth and ability of a Lady Ban or a Mistress Cai. Even if I copied it out and took it away, I fear the world would not care to read it.” The stone laughed and answered: “Why is my master so foolish? If you say there is no dynasty to be verified, then let my master simply borrow the reigns of Han or Tang and tack them on — what difficulty is there in that? But I think that the unofficial histories of every age have all trodden one and the same rut; better that mine does not borrow these conventions, and is instead new and distinctive. It does no more than take the substance and reason of the matter, so why be so rigidly bound by dynasty and date? Moreover, among the common folk of the market-place, few care to read books of government and order, while many love amusing and leisurely writing. The unofficial histories of the past either slander rulers and ministers or demean other men's wives and daughters, and their lewdness and wickedness are beyond counting. There is, further, a kind of wind-and-moon writing whose obscenity and filth, whose poisonous pen, corrupts the young, and these too are beyond counting. As for books of beauties and geniuses, a thousand volumes all come out of one mold, and none of them can in the end avoid lewd excess, so that the page is filled with Pan An, Zijian, Xi Shi and Wenjun — it is only that the author wishes to set out those two love poems or flowery rhapsodies of his own; hence he invents the names of a man and a woman, and must needs bring a petty villain on the scene to stir up trouble between them, just like the clown in a play. And the maids and slave-girls no sooner open their mouths than it is ‘thee’ and ‘thou’, and either reasoning or principle. So, looked at one by one, they are all self-contradictory and quite contrary to reason and feeling. They cannot compare with these few women whom I have seen and heard of with my own eyes and ears over half a lifetime; though I dare not say they surpass all the persons in the books of former ages, yet the course and circumstances of their deeds can also dispel grief and banish melancholy, and there are a few doggerel verses and familiar sayings that can make one choke with laughter and serve for wine. As for partings and meetings, grief and joy, rise and fall and the turns of fortune, these I have followed faithfully, not daring to add the least invention, merely to please men's eyes and so lose the true record. The people of today — the poor are burdened daily by food and clothing, and the rich harbor hearts that are never satisfied; and even in a moment of leisure there are lust and lechery, love of goods and the pursuit of sorrows: where would they find the time to read books of government and order? That is why this tale of mine does not wish the world to call it strange or marvelous, nor does it insist that the world read it with delight; it wishes only that when they are drunk with lust and lying full-fed, or when they would shun the world and escape their sorrows, they might take it up for a little play — would that not save some of their lifespan and strength? Compared with scheming after vanities and chasing after falsehoods, it would also spare them the harm of words and quarrels and the bustle of running to and fro. Furthermore, it would give the world fresh eyes, not like those old manuscripts with their wild pulling and dragging, their sudden partings and sudden meetings, pages full of gifted scholars and virtuous maidens, Zijian and Wenjun, Hongniang and Xiaoyu and all the rest of the worn-out conventions. What does my master think of this?”";
/* cliff:source: 空空道人听如此說，思忖半晌，將《石頭記》再檢閱一遍，因見上面雖 有些指奸責佞貶惡誅邪之語，亦非傷時罵世之旨，及至君仁臣良父慈子孝， 凡倫常所關之處，皆是稱功頌德，眷眷無窮，實非別書之可比．雖其中大旨 談論，亦不過實錄其事，又非假擬妄稱，一味淫邀艷約，私訂偷盟之可比． 因毫不干涉時世，方從頭至尾抄錄回來，問世傳奇．從此空空道人因空見色 ，由色生情，傳情入色，自色悟空，遂易名為情僧，改《石頭記》為《情僧 錄》．東魯孔梅溪則題曰《風月寶鑒》．后因曹雪芹于悼紅軒中披閱十載， 增刪五次，纂成目錄，分出章回，則題曰《金陵十二釵》．并題一絕云： */
"chapter-1-005" = "When the Taoist of Emptiness heard this, he pondered for a long while, then went through The Story of the Stone once more from beginning to end. He saw that although there were passages on it that pointed out treachery, rebuked flattery, condemned evil and punished wickedness, none of them was intended to wound the age or curse the world; and where it came to the kindness of rulers, the goodness of ministers, the affection of fathers and the filial piety of sons, wherever the ties of human relations were concerned, it was all praise of merit and celebration of virtue, endlessly devoted, truly beyond comparison with other books. And although its main purport was a discussion, it did no more than record events truthfully, and was not to be compared with false invention and idle assertion, with nothing but lewd invitations and wanton assignations, secret vows and stolen pledges. Since it had not the slightest concern with the times, he therefore copied it out from beginning to end and took it back with him, to publish it to the world as a marvel. From then on, because the Taoist of Emptiness saw form in emptiness, and from form begot passion, and passing passion into form, awoke from form to emptiness, he changed his name to the Passionate Monk and retitled The Story of the Stone as The Record of the Passionate Monk. Kong Meixi of Eastern Lu gave it the title Precious Mirror of Wind and Moon. Later, because Cao Xueqin read it over in the Mourning-the-Red Studio for ten years, added and deleted five times, compiled a table of contents and divided it into chapters and sections, he gave it the title The Twelve Beauties of Jinling. And he inscribed a quatrain:";
/* cliff:source: 當日地陷東南，這東南一隅有處曰姑蘇，有城曰閶門者，最是紅塵中一 二等富貴風流之地．這閶門外有個十里街，街內有個仁清巷，巷內有個古廟 ，因地方窄狹，人皆呼作葫蘆廟．廟旁住著一家鄉宦，姓甄，名費，字士隱 ．嫡妻封氏，情性賢淑，深明禮義．家中雖不甚富貴，然本地便也推他為望 族了．因這甄士隱稟性恬淡，不以功名為念，每日只以觀花修竹，酌酒吟詩 為樂，倒是神仙一流人品．只是一件不足：如今年已半百，膝下無儿，只有 一女，乳名喚作英蓮，年方三歲． */
"chapter-1-006" = "On that day when the earth sank in the southeast, in that southeastern corner there was a place called Gusu, and a city whose gate was called Changmen, the very first or second of all the rich and fashionable haunts of the dusty world. Outside this Changmen Gate there was a Ten-Li Street, and within the street a Lane of Benevolence and Purity, and within the lane an ancient temple, which, because the ground was cramped and narrow, everyone called the Gourd Temple. Beside the temple lived a family of country gentry, surnamed Zhen, named Fei, styled Shiyin. His principal wife was of the Feng family, virtuous and gentle in disposition, deeply versed in propriety and right. Though the household was not especially rich or noble, yet in that locality he was reckoned a family of standing. Because Zhen Shiyin was by nature placid and indifferent, giving no thought to rank and fame, and spent his days only in enjoying flowers and tending bamboos, in drinking wine and chanting poems, he was a man of immortal mold. There was but one thing wanting: he was now past fifty, had no son at his knee, and only one daughter, whose infant name was Yinglian, just three years old.";
/* cliff:source: 一日，炎夏永晝，士隱于書房閒坐，至手倦拋書，伏几少憩，不覺朦朧 睡去．夢至一處，不辨是何地方．忽見那廂來了一僧一道，且行且談．只听 道人問道：“你攜了這蠢物，意欲何往？"那僧笑道：“你放心，如今現有 一段風流公案正該了結，這一干風流冤家，尚未投胎入世．趁此机會，就將 此蠢物夾帶于中，使他去經歷經歷。”那道人道：“原來近日風流冤孽又將 造劫歷世去不成？但不知落于何方何處？"那僧笑道：“此事說來好笑，竟 是千古未聞的罕事．只因西方靈河岸上三生石畔，有絳珠草一株，時有赤瑕 宮神瑛侍者，日以甘露灌溉，這絳珠草始得久延歲月．后來既受天地精華， 复得雨露滋養，遂得脫卻草胎木質，得換人形，僅修成個女体，終日游于离 恨天外，饑則食蜜青果為膳，渴則飲灌愁海水為湯．只因尚未酬報灌溉之德 ，故其五內便郁結著一段纏綿不盡之意．恰近日這神瑛侍者凡心偶熾，乘此 昌明太平朝世，意欲下凡造歷幻緣，已在警幻仙子案前挂了號．警幻亦曾問 及，灌溉之情未償，趁此倒可了結的．那絳珠仙子道：`他是甘露之惠，我 并無此水可還．他既下世為人，我也去下世為人，但把我一生所有的眼淚還 他，也償還得過他了．'因此一事，就勾出多少風流冤家來，陪他們去了結 此案。”那道人道：“果是罕聞．實未聞有還淚之說．想來這一段故事，比 歷來風月事故更加瑣碎細膩了。”那僧道：“歷來几個風流人物，不過傳其 大概以及詩詞篇章而已，至家庭閨閣中一飲一食，總未述記．再者，大半風 月故事，不過偷香竊玉，暗約私奔而已，并不曾將儿女之真情發泄一二．想 這一干人入世，其情痴色鬼，賢愚不肖者，悉与前人傳述不同矣。”那道人 道：“趁此何不你我也去下世度脫几個，豈不是一場功德？"那僧道：“正 合吾意，你且同我到警幻仙子宮中，將蠢物交割清楚，待這一干風流孽鬼下 世已完，你我再去．如今雖已有一半落塵，然猶未全集。”道人道：“既如 此，便隨你去來。” */
"chapter-1-007" = "One day, in the long daylight of midsummer, Shiyin was sitting idly in his study. When his hand grew tired he threw down his book, and resting his head on the desk for a brief nap, he fell imperceptibly into a drowsy sleep. He dreamed his way to a place whose whereabouts he could not tell. Suddenly he saw coming from that side a monk and a Taoist, walking and talking together. He heard the Taoist ask: “Where are you taking that foolish thing of yours?\" The monk laughed and said: “Set your mind at ease. As it happens, there is now a case of love and passion that ought to be settled, and this whole company of amorous debtors have not yet been born into the world. I will take this chance to slip this foolish thing in among them, so that he may go and experience it all.” The Taoist said: “So the amorous debts of late are to go through their tribulation in the world once more? But I do not know where they will fall.” The monk laughed and said: “It will sound ridiculous when I tell you — it is a rare thing, unheard-of through the ages. Because by the bank of the Spirit River in the West, beside the Stone of Three Lives, there grew a Crimson Pearl Herb, and there was then a Servant of the Divine Shining Stone in the Palace of Red Jade who watered it daily with sweet dew, so that the Crimson Pearl Herb was able to prolong its years. In time, having received the essence of heaven and earth and again been nourished by rain and dew, it was able to cast off its herb-and-wood nature and take a human shape; it achieved only a female body, and roamed all day beyond the Heaven of Parting Sorrow, feeding on honeyed love-fruit when hungry and drinking the waters of the Sea of Sorrow when thirsty. Because it had not yet repaid the kindness of that watering, a strand of endless longing lay knotted within its breast. It happened that just lately this Servant of the Divine Shining Stone had his mortal heart suddenly kindled, and taking advantage of this bright and peaceful age, wished to descend into the world to live out a phantom destiny; he has already registered his name in the office of the Fairy Disenchantment. Disenchantment herself once asked him about it, saying that the debt of water and dew had not been repaid and that this was a good chance to settle it. Then the Crimson Pearl Fairy said: `He showed me the kindness of sweet dew, and I have no such water to repay him with. Since he is to descend into the world and become a man, I too will descend and become a woman, and if I give him all the tears of my life to repay him, that should be repayment enough.' And from this one matter have come drawing out how many amorous debtors to go with him and settle the case.” The Taoist said: “This is indeed rarely heard of. I have truly never heard of a story of repaying tears. This tale must be more minute and delicate than all the wind-and-moon tales of the past.” The monk said: “Of the amorous personages of former ages, only the general outline has been handed down, along with their poems and chapters; of the food and drink, the daily life within the family and the women's chambers, nothing at all has been recorded. Moreover, most wind-and-moon tales are no more than stolen fragrance and pilfered jade, secret assignations and elopements, and have never released so much as a hint of the true feelings of young men and women. I think that when this whole company enter the world, their lovesick fools and lechers, their wise and their foolish and their unworthy, will all be different from what former generations have recorded.” The Taoist said: “Then why not take this chance and let us too descend into the world and save a few souls? Would that not be a work of merit?\" The monk said: “That is just my own thought. Come with me first to the palace of the Fairy Disenchantment and settle the matter of the foolish thing; when this crowd of amorous ghosts have all been born into the world, you and I will go too. As it is, though half of them have already fallen into the dust, the whole company is not yet complete.” The Taoist said: “In that case, I will go with you.”";
/* cliff:source: 卻說甄士隱俱听得明白，但不知所云"蠢物"系何東西．遂不禁上前施禮 ，笑問道：“二仙師請了。”那僧道也忙答禮相問．士隱因說道：“适聞仙 師所談因果，實人世罕聞者．但弟子愚濁，不能洞悉明白，若蒙大開痴頑， 備細一聞，弟子則洗耳諦听，稍能警省，亦可免沉倫之苦。”二仙笑道：“ 此乃玄机不可預泄者．到那時不要忘我二人，便可跳出火坑矣。”士隱听了 ，不便再問．因笑道：“玄机不可預泄，但适云`蠢物'，不知為何，或可一 見否？"那僧道：“若問此物，倒有一面之緣。”說著，取出遞与士隱．士 隱接了看時，原來是塊鮮明美玉，上面字跡分明，鐫著"通靈寶玉"四字，后 面還有几行小字．正欲細看時，那僧便說已到幻境，便強從手中奪了去，与 道人竟過一大石牌坊，上書四個大字，乃是"太虛幻境"．兩邊又有一幅對聯 ，道是： */
"chapter-1-008" = "Now when Zhen Shiyin had heard it all plainly, though he did not know what the \"foolish thing\" they spoke of might be. He could not help stepping forward and making his bow, then asking with a smile: “Greetings, my two immortal masters.” The monk and the Taoist hurriedly returned his greeting and inquired after him. Shiyin then said: “I have just heard the immortal masters discoursing on cause and effect, a thing truly seldom heard among men. But your disciple is dull and muddled and cannot fathom it clearly. If you would be so good as to open wide my foolishness and let me hear it in full, your disciple will listen with all his ears; and if it can somewhat rouse and warn me, I too may escape the misery of sinking into perdition.” The two immortals laughed and said: “This is a mystery that may not be revealed beforehand. When that time comes, do not forget the two of us, and you may leap clear of the pit of fire.” Hearing this, Shiyin did not press further. He said with a smile: “Since the mystery may not be revealed beforehand — but you spoke just now of a `foolish thing'; I do not know what it is. Might I perhaps have a look at it?\" The monk said: “As for that object, you do happen to have a fateful meeting with it.” With that he took it out and handed it to Shiyin. Shiyin received it and looked: it was a piece of bright and beautiful jade, with clear writing upon it, inscribed with the four characters \"Precious Jade of Spiritual Understanding\", and behind it several lines of small characters. He was just about to look closely when the monk said they had already reached the Realm of Illusion, and snatched it forcibly from his hand; then with the Taoist he passed straight through a great stone archway inscribed with four large characters, which read: \"The Realm of the Great Void Illusion\". On either side was a couplet which read:";
/* cliff:source: 這士隱正痴想，忽見隔壁葫蘆廟內寄居的一個窮儒-姓賈名化，表字時 飛，別號雨行者走了出來．這賈雨村原系胡州人氏，也是詩書仕宦之族，因 他生于末世，父母祖宗根基已盡，人口衰喪，只剩得他一身一口，在家鄉無 益，因進京求取功名，再整基業．自前歲來此，又淹蹇住了，暫寄廟中安身 ，每日賣字作文為生，故士隱常与他交接．當下雨村見了士隱，忙施禮陪笑 道：“老先生倚門佇望，敢是街市上有甚新聞否？"士隱笑道：“非也．适 因小女啼哭，引他出來作耍，正是無聊之甚，兄來得正妙，請入小齋一談， 彼此皆可消此永晝。”說著，便令人送女儿進去，自与雨村攜手來至書房中 ．小童獻茶．方談得三五句話，忽家人飛報：“嚴老爺來拜。”士隱慌的忙 起身謝罪道：“恕誑駕之罪，略坐，弟即來陪。”雨村忙起身亦讓道：“老 先生請便．晚生乃常造之客，稍候何妨。”說著，士隱已出前廳去了． */
"chapter-1-009" = "While Shiyin was lost in these foolish fancies, he suddenly saw coming out a poor scholar lodged in the neighbouring Gourd Temple — surnamed Jia, named Hua, styled Shifei, and known by the byname Yucun. This Jia Yucun was originally of Huzhou, of a family of scholars and officials; but because he was born in a declining age, when his parents' and ancestors' foundations were quite exhausted and the family had dwindled away, leaving him alone in the world with no one else, he found no profit in his native place, and so came to the capital to seek fame and rank and rebuild the family fortunes. He had arrived two years before, and had been stranded there, lodging temporarily in the temple, selling his calligraphy and writing compositions day by day to make a living; that is why Shiyin often had dealings with him. Now Yucun saw Shiyin and made haste to greet him with a smile: “Old sir, standing there leaning at your gate and gazing — can there be some news in the market-place?\" Shiyin laughed and said: “No. Just now my little girl was crying, and I brought her out to play; it was indeed utter boredom, and most fortunate that you have come, brother. Pray come into my little study and we will talk; we can both while away this long day.” With that he had his daughter sent back inside, and taking Yucun by the hand he led him to the study. A young servant offered tea. They had spoken but three or five sentences when a servant came flying in to report: “Old Master Yan has come to call.” In a flurry Shiyin rose and begged pardon: “Forgive me for imposing on your presence; sit a little, and I will be back to keep you company.” Yucun too rose in haste and said: “Pray go, old sir. I am a frequent visitor; waiting a while is no matter.” As he spoke, Shiyin had already gone out to the front hall.";
/* cliff:source: 一日，早又中秋佳節．士隱家宴已畢，乃又另具一席于書房，卻自己步 月至廟中來邀雨村．原來雨村自那日見了甄家之婢曾回顧他兩次，自為是個 知己，便時刻放在心上．今又正值中秋，不免對月有怀，因而口占五言一律 云： */
"chapter-1-010" = "One day the Mid-Autumn Festival came round again. When Shiyin's family feast was over, he had another table laid in the study, and himself walked by moonlight to the temple to invite Yucun. Now ever since the day Yucun had seen the Zhen family's maid turn and look back at him twice, he had taken her for a true friend, and kept her constantly in his thoughts. Now that Mid-Autumn had come again, he could not but be stirred as he faced the moon, and so he chanted impromptu a regulated verse of five-character lines:";
/* cliff:source: 蟾光如有意，先上玉人樓．雨村吟罷，因又思及平生抱負，苦未逢時， 乃又搔首對天長歎，复高吟一聯曰： */
"chapter-1-011" = "If the toad's light has any feeling, let it first climb the tower of the jade beauty. When Yucun had finished chanting, he thought again of the ambition of his life and the bitterness of never having met his hour; and so, scratching his head, he sighed long and loud at the sky, then chanted aloud another couplet:";
/* cliff:source: 可巧這日拄了拐杖掙挫到街前散散心時，忽見那邊來了一個跛足道人， 瘋癲落脫，麻屣鶉衣，口內念著几句言詞，道是： */
"chapter-1-012" = "It so happened that one day, when he had taken up a staff and struggled out to the street to take a little air, he suddenly saw coming from that direction a lame Taoist, wild and slovenly, in hemp sandals and a quail-feathered coat, chanting a few words through his lips, which were:";
/* cliff:source: 痴心父母古來多，孝順儿孫誰見了？士隱听了，便迎上來道：“你滿口 說些什么？只听見些`好'`了'`好'`了'．那道人笑道：“你若果听見`好'` 了'二字，還算你明白．可知世上万般，好便是了，了便是好．若不了，便 不好，若要好，須是了．我這歌儿，便名《好了歌》"士隱本是有宿慧的， 一聞此言，心中早已徹悟．因笑道：“且住！待我將你這《好了歌》解注出 來何如？"道人笑道：“你解，你解。”士隱乃說道： */
"chapter-1-013" = "Devoted parents there have been since old; but who has ever seen a filial child? When Shiyin heard this he went up to meet him and said: “What is it you are saying all the time? I hear nothing but `good' and `done', `good' and `done'.” The Taoist laughed and said: “If you really heard the words `good' and `done', then you have some understanding after all. You must know that in all things under heaven, when a thing is good, it is done; and when a thing is done, it is good. If it is not done, then it cannot be good; if you would have it good, it must be done. This song of mine is called The Song of Good and Done.\" Shiyin was a man of inborn wisdom; at these words his heart was at once wholly enlightened. He said with a smile: “Stay a moment! Let me set out an exposition of this Song of Good and Done of yours — how would that be?\" The Taoist laughed and said: “Expound it, expound it.” Then Shiyin said:";
/* cliff:source: 陋室空堂，當年笏滿床，衰草枯楊，曾為歌舞場．蛛絲儿結滿雕梁，綠 紗今又糊在蓬窗上．說什么脂正濃，粉正香，如何兩鬢又成霜？昨日黃土隴 頭送白骨，今宵紅燈帳底臥鴛鴦．金滿箱，銀滿箱，展眼乞丐人皆謗．正歎 他人命不長，那知自己歸來喪！訓有方，保不定日后作強梁．擇膏粱，誰承 望流落在煙花巷！因嫌紗帽小，致使鎖枷杠，昨怜破襖寒，今嫌紫蟒長：亂 烘烘你方唱罷我登場，反認他鄉是故鄉．甚荒唐，到頭來都是為他人作嫁衣 裳！那瘋跛道人听了，拍掌笑道：“解得切，解得切！"士隱便說一聲"走罷 ！"將道人肩上褡褳搶了過來背著，竟不回家，同了瘋道人飄飄而去．當下 烘動街坊，眾人當作一件新聞傳說．封氏聞得此信，哭個死去活來，只得与 父親商議，遣人各處訪尋，那討音信？無奈何，少不得依靠著他父母度日． 幸而身邊還有兩個舊日的丫鬟伏侍，主仆三人，日夜作些針線發賣，幫著父 親用度．那封肅雖然日日抱怨，也無可奈何了． */
"chapter-1-014" = "Mean rooms and empty halls, where once the audience tablets filled the bed; withered grass and dead willows, where once were grounds of song and dance. Spider webs have woven across the carved beams, and green silk is now pasted over the bramble window. Say not that rouge is rich and powder fragrant — how is it that the temples have turned to frost? Yesterday on the yellow-earth ridge a white skeleton was escorted out; tonight beneath the red lantern and the bed-curtains lie mandarin ducks. Gold fills the chest and silver fills the chest, and in a blink a beggar whom all revile. Just now lamenting that another's life is short, who knew that one's own turn to die had come! Raised with the strictest lessons, who can be sure he will not turn a robber in after years. Chosen for a wealthy match, who would have looked for her to fall among the singing-houses! Because a gauze cap seemed too small, the cangue and chains were clamped on; yesterday pitying the cold of a ragged coat, today complaining that the purple python robe is too long: in a hubbub, no sooner has your song ended than I mount the stage, and another's land is mistaken for one's own home. How absurd! In the end it is all sewing a wedding dress for someone else! When the mad lame Taoist heard this he clapped his hands and laughed: “Well expounded, well expounded!\" And Shiyin said, “Let us be off!\" He snatched the pilgrim's bag from the Taoist's shoulder and shouldered it himself, and without going home at all he went off with the mad Taoist, floating away. At once the whole neighbourhood was in an uproar, and everyone told it as a piece of news. When the Lady Feng heard of it she wept herself half dead, and could only consult with her father and send people everywhere to search for him; but what news of him could they get? There was nothing for it; she must needs depend on her parents for her living. Fortunately she still had two old maids about her to wait on her, and mistress and servants, the three of them, did needlework day and night to sell, helping toward her father's expenses. Though Feng Su grumbled every day, there was nothing he could do about it.";