{
  "chapter-1": {
    "chapter-1-001": "This is the opening chapter of the book. The author speaks in his own person: Having once passed through a dream of illusion, he hides the true facts and, borrowing the tale of the “Spiritual Stone,” writes this book, The Story of the Stone. Hence the name “Zhen Shiyin” [Truth Hidden]. But what events and what persons does the book record? He says again: “Now, in the dusty toil of this world, having accomplished nothing, I suddenly think of all the women of those days. Examining them one by one, I feel that their conduct and understanding are all above mine. Why is it that I, a full-grown man, should prove inferior to these women? Truly, shame is more than I can bear, and regret is of no avail—what can I do on such a day! In this case, I wish to take the days when I relied on heaven’s grace and my ancestors’ virtue, when I wore brocade and fine silk, when I ate sweet and rich foods, but betrayed the kindness of my father and brothers’ teaching, failed the virtue of my teachers and friends’ counsel, and have come to this day with no skill and a life of failure—I wish to compose a volume and tell the world: my guilt is indeed inescapable, but in the women’s apartments there have always been remarkable people. I must not, because of my own unworthiness and my covering up of my shortcomings, allow them all to be obliterated. Though today I have thatched eaves and a rustic window, an earthen stove and a rope bed, the morning and evening wind and dew, the willows by the steps and flowers in the courtyard, still do not hinder my heart and brush. Though I have no learning and my writing lacks elegance, what harm is there in using make-believe words and rustic speech to unfold a story? It may make the women known to posterity, and also please the eyes of the world and dispel people’s sorrow. Is that not fitting?” Hence the name “Jia Yucun” [Village Words].",
    "chapter-1-002": "In this chapter, the use of such words as “dream” and “illusion” is meant to alert the reader’s eyes; it is also the main purpose of this book.",
    "chapter-1-003": "When Nüwa melted stones to repair the sky, she smelted on the Great Fable Mountain, at the Base-of-No-Record Cliff, 36,501 blocks of stubborn stone, each twelve fathoms high and twenty-four fathoms square. Nüwa used only 36,500 of them; one single block was left unused and cast down at the foot of Blue Ridge Peak on that mountain. Who would have thought that after being smelted and tempered, this stone had gained spiritual awareness? Seeing that all the other stones had been used to repair the sky, while it alone, lacking talent, was unfit to be chosen, it complained and sighed, weeping and grieving day and night in shame.",
    "chapter-1-004": "Then the Taoist of Limitless Void said to the Stone: “Brother Stone, by your own account this story of yours has something of interest, and so you have written it here, wishing to publish it as a marvel to the world. But in my view, first, there is no dynasty or date that can be verified; second, there are no great sages or loyal ministers, no good government that ordered the court and improved morals. It contains only a few unusual women, some passionate, some foolish, some with small talents and slight virtues; there are no women of the virtue and ability of Ban Zhao or Cai Wenji. Even if I copy it and take it out, I fear the world will not care to read it.” The Stone laughed and replied: “Master, how foolish you are! If you say there is no dynasty to verify, then why not borrow the reign titles of the Han or Tang and add them in? What difficulty is there in that? But I think that all the unofficial histories of the past follow the same rut; it would be better for mine not to borrow that formula—on the contrary, it is novel and distinctive. It simply takes the circumstances and feelings as they are; why must one be bound by dynasty and date? Moreover, among the common people of the marketplace, few like to read books on government and moral order, while many more love amusing and idle writings. The unofficial histories of the past either slander rulers and ministers, or debase other people’s wives and daughters; their lewdness and viciousness are too many to count. There is another kind of romantic writing, obscene and foul, poisonous to the brush, corrupting young people—also too many to count. As for books of beautiful women and talented scholars, a thousand volumes all come from one mold, and they cannot avoid lewdness and excess; the pages are filled with Pan An, Cao Zhi, Xi Shi, Zhuo Wenjun—all because the author wants to write out his own two love poems and flowery rhapsodies, so he invents names for a man and a woman, and must bring in a petty villain to stir up trouble between them, just like the clown in a play. And the maids and slave girls speak only in classical phrases, either literary or moral. When one looks at them one by one, they are all self-contradictory and utterly unreasonable. They are not equal to these few women whom I have seen and heard with my own eyes in half a lifetime. Though I dare not say they are better than all the people in earlier books, their stories and circumstances can still dispel sorrow and relieve gloom; there are also a few poor poems and familiar sayings that can make one laugh and accompany wine. As for partings and reunions, joys and sorrows, rises and falls, I have followed the traces closely and dared not add any fabrication, merely to please people’s eyes and thus lose the true record. People today—the poor are daily burdened by food and clothing, the rich are discontented at heart; even if they have a little leisure, they are greedy for lust and delight in sex, fond of goods and seeking amusement—where would they find time to read books on government and moral order? Therefore I do not wish the world to call this story wonderful or marvelous, nor do I insist that people read it with delight; I only wish that when they are drunk with lust and lying full, or when they are avoiding the world and escaping sorrow, they might take it up and play with it. Would it not save them some span of life and strength? Compared with scheming after falsehood and chasing delusions, it would also save them the harm of gossip and quarrels and the bustle of running about. Moreover, it may give the world new eyes, unlike those old manuscripts that pull things together at random, with sudden partings and meetings, pages full of talented scholars and virtuous maidens, Cao Zhi, Zhuo Wenjun, Hongniang, Xiaoyu, and all the rest of the worn-out routines. What does my master think of it?”",
    "chapter-1-005": "When the Taoist of Limitless Void heard this, he pondered for a long while, then read The Story of the Stone through once more. He saw that although it contained some words accusing the wicked, blaming the sycophantic, condemning evil and punishing heresy, it was not intended to wound the times or revile the world; and as for the parts where rulers are benevolent, ministers good, fathers kind and sons filial—wherever human relations are involved—it was all praise of merit and virtue, endless in its devotion, truly beyond comparison with other books. Although its main purport was merely to record events truthfully, it was not like false inventions and wild claims, or writings that are all lewd invitations and amorous appointments, secret pledges and stolen alliances. Since it had no involvement with the times or the world, he copied it out from beginning to end and brought it back to publish as a marvel. Thereafter, because the Taoist of Limitless Void saw form in emptiness, and from form begot feeling, transmitted feeling and entered form, and from form awakened to emptiness, he changed his name to the Passionate Monk and renamed The Story of the Stone as The Record of the Passionate Monk. Kong Meixi of Eastern Lu entitled it The Precious Mirror of Wind and Moon. Later, because Cao Xueqin, in the Mourning-the-Red Studio, read it for ten years, revised and deleted it five times, compiled a table of contents, and divided it into chapters and sections, he entitled it The Twelve Beauties of Jinling. He also wrote a quatrain:",
    "chapter-1-006": "In those days, when the earth sank in the southeast, in that southeastern corner there was a place called Gusu, and in it a city called Changmen, which was one of the most wealthy and fashionable spots in the red dust of the world. Outside Changmen there was a Ten-Mile Street; in the street was Renqing Lane; in the lane was an old temple. Because the place was narrow and cramped, people all called it the Gourd Temple. Beside the temple lived a country gentleman named Zhen Fei, courtesy name Shiyin. His principal wife was of the Feng family, virtuous and gentle, deeply versed in propriety and righteousness. Though the household was not very wealthy, the local people still regarded it as a prominent clan. Zhen Shiyin was by nature placid and indifferent, giving no thought to fame or office; every day he took pleasure in viewing flowers, tending bamboos, pouring wine and chanting poems. He was, in fact, of the immortal sort. There was only one lack: he was now past fifty, had no son, only a daughter whose infant name was Yinglian, just three years old.",
    "chapter-1-007": "One day, in the long daylight of midsummer, Shiyin was sitting idly in his study. When his hand grew tired he tossed aside his book and lay down on the desk for a short rest; before he knew it, he had dozed off into a hazy sleep. He dreamed that he came to a place, but could not tell what place it was. Suddenly he saw a monk and a Taoist coming from that direction, walking and talking together. He heard the Taoist ask: “Where are you taking that foolish thing?” The monk laughed and said: “Set your mind at ease. There is now a case of love and passion that ought to be settled. These romantic foes have not yet been born into the world. Taking this opportunity, I will smuggle this foolish thing in among them and let it go through the experience.” The Taoist said: “So the romantic debts of recent days are about to create another tribulation and go through the world? But I do not know where they will fall.” The monk laughed and said: “This is laughable to tell—it is a rare thing unheard of through the ages. On the bank of the Spiritual River in the West, beside the Three-Life Stone, there is a Crimson Pearl Grass. At that time there was an Attendant Shenying in the Palace of Red Jade, who daily watered it with sweet dew, and so this Crimson Pearl Grass was able to prolong its years. Later, having received the essence of heaven and earth and the nourishment of rain and dew, it was able to shed its grass-and-wood nature and take human form—though it only cultivated a female body. All day it wandered beyond the Heaven of Parting Sorrow; when hungry it ate sweet green fruit as its meal, when thirsty it drank the water of the Sea of Grief as its soup. But because it had not yet repaid the kindness of the watering, there was knotted within it a lingering feeling of unending affection. Just now this Attendant Shenying’s mortal heart was suddenly stirred; taking advantage of this bright and peaceful age, he wished to descend to the world of men and go through a phantom destiny. He has already registered his name before the Fairy Disenchantment. Disenchantment also asked about it: since the debt of watering had not been repaid, this might be the chance to settle it. The Crimson Pearl Fairy said: ‘He gave me the grace of sweet dew, but I have no such water to repay him. Since he is going down into the world as a man, I too will go down into the world as a woman; I will repay him with all the tears of my life, and that will be enough to repay him.’ Because of this one matter, many romantic foes have been drawn in to accompany them and settle the case.” The Taoist said: “This is indeed rarely heard. I have never heard of repaying tears. I think this story is more trifling and delicate than all the love tales of the past.” The monk said: “The few romantic figures of the past were only transmitted in rough outline, along with their poems and compositions; as for the food and drink in their family chambers, nothing was ever recorded. Moreover, most love stories are no more than stealing fragrance and snatching jade, secret trysts and elopements; they never reveal a bit of the true feelings of boys and girls. I think that when these people enter the world, their passionate folly, their lust and ghostliness, their worthiness and foolishness, will all be different from what earlier writers have told.” The Taoist said: “Why not take this chance for you and me to go down into the world and save a few souls? Would that not be a work of merit?” The monk said: “That suits my mind exactly. You come with me first to the palace of the Fairy Disenchantment and hand over this foolish thing clearly; when these romantic ghosts have all been born into the world, we two will go. Though half of them have already fallen into the dust, they are not yet all assembled.” The Taoist said: “Since that is so, I will go with you.”",
    "chapter-1-008": "Now Zhen Shiyin heard all of this clearly, but he did not know what the “foolish thing” they spoke of was. He could not help stepping forward and bowing, then asking with a smile: “Greetings, you two immortal masters.” The monk and the Taoist quickly returned the greeting and asked after him. Shiyin then said: “I just heard the immortal masters speak of cause and effect, something truly rarely heard in the human world. But your disciple is ignorant and dull, and cannot fully understand. If you would be so kind as to open my foolish mind and let me hear it in detail, I would listen respectfully with washed ears; if I could gain a little awakening, I might also escape the suffering of sinking into damnation.” The two immortals laughed and said: “This is a mystery that must not be revealed in advance. When the time comes, if you do not forget the two of us, you will be able to leap out of the fiery pit.” Hearing this, Shiyin did not press further. He smiled and said: “Since the mystery may not be revealed in advance, may I ask what the ‘foolish thing’ you mentioned just now is? Perhaps I might be allowed to see it?” The monk said: “If you ask about this thing, you actually have a one-face affinity with it.” With that, he took it out and handed it to Shiyin. Shiyin received it and looked: it was a piece of bright, beautiful jade, with clear writing on it, engraved with the four characters ‘Precious Jade of Spiritual Understanding,’ and behind it were several lines of small characters. Just as he was about to examine it closely, the monk said they had arrived at the Realm of Illusion, and forcibly snatched it from his hand. Then with the Taoist he passed through a great stone archway inscribed with four large characters: ‘The Great Void Realm of Illusion.’ On either side was a couplet, which read:",
    "chapter-1-009": "While Shiyin was lost in foolish thought, he suddenly saw coming out a poor scholar who lodged in the Gourd Temple next door—his surname Jia, given name Hua, courtesy name Shifei, and another name Yucun. This Jia Yucun was originally a native of Huzhou and also of a family of scholars and officials. Because he was born in a declining age, the foundation of his parents and ancestors was already exhausted, the family had dwindled, and only he himself was left. Having no advantage in his native place, he went to the capital to seek fame and rebuild the family fortune. Since coming here the year before, he had again been delayed, and temporarily lodged in the temple, selling his calligraphy and writing compositions for a living. Therefore Shiyin often associated with him. Now when Yucun saw Shiyin, he quickly bowed and smiled: “Old gentleman, standing at the door and gazing afar—can there be some news in the market?” Shiyin laughed and said: “No. Just now my little daughter was crying, so I brought her out to play. I was extremely bored, and your coming is most timely. Please come into my humble study and talk; we can both while away this long day.” With that, he ordered someone to take his daughter inside, and hand in hand with Yucun went to the study. A young servant offered tea. They had talked only three or five sentences when a servant came flying in to report: “Mr. Yan has come to call.” Shiyin rose in alarm and apologized: “Forgive me for leaving you; sit a little while, and I will come to keep you company.” Yucun also quickly rose and said: “Please go ahead, old gentleman. I am a frequent guest; waiting a little is no problem.” As he spoke, Shiyin had already gone out to the front hall.",
    "chapter-1-010": "One day, the Mid-Autumn Festival came again. After the family banquet was over, Shiyin prepared another feast in his study, and then walked by moonlight to the temple to invite Yucun. It turned out that since the day Yucun had seen the Zhen family’s maid look back at him twice, he had taken her for a kindred spirit and kept her constantly in his heart. Now it was again Mid-Autumn, and he could not help feeling moved by the moon, so he composed a five-character regulated verse:",
    "chapter-1-011": "If the moonlight has any feeling, it should first climb the jade maiden’s tower. When Yucun had finished chanting, he thought again of his lifelong ambitions and his bitter failure to meet the right time. He scratched his head, sighed long at heaven, and then loudly recited a couplet:",
    "chapter-1-012": "It happened that on this day, leaning on a staff and struggling to the street to take a little air, he suddenly saw a lame Taoist coming from that direction, crazy and slovenly, in hemp sandals and a quail-feathered coat, muttering a few words:",
    "chapter-1-013": "Devoted parents have always been many; filial children and grandchildren—who has seen them? Shiyin heard this and came up to him, saying: “What are you saying all over? I only heard ‘good’ and ‘done,’ ‘good’ and ‘done.’” The Taoist laughed and said: “If you really heard the words ‘good’ and ‘done,’ you still count as understanding. You should know that in all things of the world, good is done, and done is good. If not done, then not good; if you want good, you must be done. My song is called the ‘Good-Done Song.’” Shiyin had innate wisdom; on hearing these words, his heart was already thoroughly awakened. He smiled and said: “Wait! Let me annotate your ‘Good-Done Song’ for you, how about that?” The Taoist laughed and said: “You annotate, you annotate.” Shiyin then said:",
    "chapter-1-014": "A mean room and empty hall—once, tablets of office filled the bed. Withered grass and dead willows—once, a place of song and dance. Spider webs now fill the carved beams; green silk is now pasted on the thatch window. Why speak of rouge still thick and powder still fragrant, when the hair at both temples has turned to frost? Yesterday, at the yellow earth mound, a white skeleton was seen off; tonight, beneath the red lamp, lovebirds lie in the bed-curtain. Gold fills the chest, silver fills the chest—in the blink of an eye, a beggar whom all revile. While sighing that another’s life is short, how did you know your own end had come? Though you taught your children well, you cannot be sure they will not become bandits. Though you choose fine grain and rich food, who would expect to end up fallen in a pleasure quarter? Because you disliked your gauze cap being small, you brought yourself to the cangue and chain. Yesterday you pitied the cold of a torn coat; today you dislike the long purple robe. In noisy confusion, you have just finished singing and I come onstage; you mistake a foreign land for your native place. How absurd—in the end, all is making a wedding dress for someone else! When the mad lame Taoist heard this, he clapped his hands and laughed: “A fitting interpretation! A fitting interpretation!” Shiyin then said, “Let us go!” He snatched the Taoist’s cloth bag from his shoulder and carried it on his back, and without going home at all, he drifted away with the mad Taoist. At once the neighborhood was stirred, and everyone told it as a piece of news. When Madam Feng heard this news, she wept herself half dead and then half alive. She had no choice but to consult her father and send people everywhere to search, but what word could they get? There was nothing to be done; she had to rely on her parents to live. Fortunately, she still had two old maidservants to wait on her. The three of them, mistress and servants, sewed day and night and sold their needlework to help her father’s expenses. Though Feng Su complained every day, there was nothing he could do."
  }
}