/* cliff:source: 此開卷第一回也．作者自云：因曾歷過一番夢幻之后，故將真事隱去， 而借"通靈"之說，撰此《石頭記》一書也．故曰"甄士隱"云云．但書中所記 何事何人？自又云：“今風塵碌碌，一事無成，忽念及當日所有之女子，一 一細考較去，覺其行止見識，皆出于我之上．何我堂堂須眉，誠不若彼裙釵 哉？實愧則有余，悔又無益之大無可如何之日也！當此，則自欲將已往所賴 天恩祖德，錦衣紈褲之時，飫甘饜肥之日，背父兄教育之恩，負師友規談之 德，以至今日一技無成，半生潦倒之罪，編述一集，以告天下人：我之罪固 不免，然閨閣中本自歷歷有人，万不可因我之不肖，自護己短，一并使其泯 滅也．雖今日之茅椽蓬牖，瓦灶繩床，其晨夕風露，階柳庭花，亦未有妨我 之襟怀筆墨者．雖我未學，下筆無文，又何妨用假語村言，敷演出一段故事 來，亦可使閨閣昭傳，复可悅世之目，破人愁悶，不亦宜乎？"故曰"賈雨村 "云云． */
"chapter-1-001" = "This is the opening chapter of the book. The author speaks of himself: having once passed through a dream and an illusion, he hid the true facts and, borrowing the tale of the “numinous,” wrote this book, The Story of the Stone. Hence the name “Zhen Shiyin,” Truth Concealed. But what deeds, and what persons, does the book record? He speaks again of himself: “Now, worn out with the dusty world and having accomplished nothing, I suddenly thought of all the women of those days, and, examining them one by one, found that their conduct and understanding all surpassed my own. Why is it that I, a full-grown man with beard and brows, am truly not the equal of those women? Truly, shame is more than enough for me, and regret is useless on this day when there is nothing to be done! Whereupon I wished to set down in a book all my past days — when I relied on Heaven’s grace and my ancestors’ virtue, when I wore brocade and fine silk, when I ate sweet and rich foods — and my guilt in turning my back on the kindness of my father and elder brothers’ teaching and betraying the counsel of my teachers and friends, and my crime of reaching today with not one skill to my name and half a lifetime in ruin, and to tell it to all the world: my guilt is indeed beyond pardon, yet in the women’s chambers there were, after all, person after person worthy of record, and I must not, because of my own unworthiness, shield my own shortcomings and let them all be extinguished with me. Though today I have thatch for rafters and reeds for windows, a clay stove and a rope bed, yet the wind and dew of morning and evening, the willows by the steps and the flowers in the court, do nothing to hinder my heart or my brush. Though I am unlearned and my writing has no grace, what harm is there in using borrowed words and rustic speech to spin out a tale? It may make the women’s chambers known to the world, and it may also please the eyes of the age and break men’s gloom — is that not fitting?” Hence the name “Jia Yucun,” False Words Preserved.";
/* cliff:source: 此回中凡用“夢”用“幻”等字，是提醒閱者眼目，亦是此書立意本旨 ． */
"chapter-1-002" = "In this chapter, the recurring use of such words as “dream” and “illusion” is meant to catch the reader’s eye, and it is also the fundamental purport of this book.";
/* cliff:source: 原來女媧氏煉石補天之時，于大荒山無稽崖練成高經十二丈，方經二十 四丈頑石三万六千五百零一塊．媧皇氏只用了三万六千五百塊，只單單剩了 一塊未用，便棄在此山青埂峰下．誰知此石自經段煉之后，靈性已通，因見 眾石俱得補天，獨自己無材不堪入選，遂自怨自歎，日夜悲號慚愧． */
"chapter-1-003" = "Now when the goddess Nüwa smelted stones to mend the sky, at the Great Fable Mountain and the Inscrutable Cliff she refined thirty-six thousand five hundred and one blocks of stubborn stone, each twelve zhang high and twenty-four zhang square. The goddess used only thirty-six thousand five hundred of them, leaving just one over, unused, and she discarded it at the foot of Blue Ridge Peak on that mountain. Who would have thought that this stone, after being smelted and tempered, had gained spiritual understanding? Seeing that all the other stones had been found fit to mend the sky, while it alone had no worth and was unworthy of selection, it lamented its own fate, sighing and grieving in shame day and night.";
/* cliff:source: 空空道人遂向石頭說道：“石兄，你這一段故事，据你自己說有些趣味 ，故編寫在此，意欲問世傳奇．据我看來，第一件，無朝代年紀可考，第二 件，并無大賢大忠理朝廷治風俗的善政，其中只不過几個异樣女子，或情或 痴，或小才微善，亦無班姑，蔡女之德能．我縱抄去，恐世人不愛看呢。” 石頭笑答道：“我師何太痴耶！若云無朝代可考，今我師竟假借漢唐等年紀 添綴，又有何難？但我想，歷來野史，皆蹈一轍，莫如我這不借此套者，反 倒新奇別致，不過只取其事体情理罷了，又何必拘拘于朝代年紀哉！再者， 市井俗人喜看理治之書者甚少，愛适趣閒文者特多．歷來野史，或訕謗君相 ，或貶人妻女，奸淫凶惡，不可胜數．更有一种風月筆墨，其淫穢污臭，屠 毒筆墨，坏人子弟，又不可胜數．至若佳人才子等書，則又千部共出一套， 且其中終不能不涉于淫濫，以致滿紙潘安，子建，西子，文君，不過作者要 寫出自己的那兩首情詩艷賦來，故假擬出男女二人名姓，又必旁出一小人其 間撥亂，亦如劇中之小丑然．且鬟婢開口即者也之乎，非文即理．故逐一看 去，悉皆自相矛盾，大不近情理之話，竟不如我半世親睹親聞的這几個女子 ，雖不敢說強似前代書中所有之人，但事跡原委，亦可以消愁破悶，也有几 首歪詩熟話，可以噴飯供酒．至若离合悲歡，興衰際遇，則又追蹤躡跡，不 敢稍加穿鑿，徒為供人之目而反失其真傳者．今之人，貧者日為衣食所累， 富者又怀不足之心，縱然一時稍閒，又有貪淫戀色，好貨尋愁之事，那里去 有工夫看那理治之書？所以我這一段故事，也不愿世人稱奇道妙，也不定要 世人喜悅檢讀，只愿他們當那醉淫飽臥之時，或避世去愁之際，把此一玩， 豈不省了些壽命筋力？就比那謀虛逐妄，卻也省了口舌是非之害，腿腳奔忙 之．再者，亦令世人換新眼目，不比那些胡牽亂扯，忽离忽遇，滿紙才人 淑女，子建文君紅娘小玉等通共熟套之舊稿．我師意為何如？” */
"chapter-1-004" = "Then the Taoist of the Void said to the stone: “Brother Stone, by your own account there is something of interest in this tale of yours, and so you have written it down here, hoping to publish it to the world as a marvel. As I see it, in the first place there is no dynasty or reign-period to give it a date; and in the second, there is no great sage or great loyal minister whose good government set the court in order and reformed the manners of the realm; there are only a few odd women, some amorous, some foolish, some with small talents and trifling virtues, and none of them with the virtue and ability of a Ban Zhao or a Cai Yan. Even if I copied it out and took it away, I fear the world would not care to read it.” The stone laughed and answered: “Master, how foolish you are! If you say there is no dynasty to give it a date, what difficulty would there be for you to borrow the reign-periods of the Han or the Tang and tack them on? But I think that the unofficial histories of past ages all tread one rut; better that mine should not borrow that old set of conventions, and so be the newer and more singular. It is only that I take the truth and reason of the matter — and why must one be tied hand and foot to a dynasty and a reign-period? Besides, there are very few of the vulgar crowd in the marketplace who like to read books of government and order; far more love idle tales of amusement. The unofficial histories of the past either slander rulers and ministers or vilify other men’s wives and daughters; their lewdness and cruelty are beyond counting. And there is another kind, the writing of wind and moonlight, whose obscenity and filth, whose poisoned brush, corrupts young men — and these too are beyond counting. As for the books of beauties and men of genius, a thousand of them come from one single mold, and none of them can keep clear of lewdness, so that the whole page is filled with Pan An, Zijian, Xi Shi and Wenjun; it is only that the author wishes to show off the two amorous poems and florid rhapsodies he has written, and so he invents the names of a man and a woman, and must needs bring in a petty person to stir up trouble between them, just like the clown in a play. And the maids and serving girls no sooner open their mouths than they are spouting bookish phrases — moral maxims, or abstractions. So if you look at them one by one, they are all self-contradictory and utterly improbable. They are not to be compared with these few women whom I have seen and heard with my own eyes and ears for half a lifetime. Though I dare not say they are better than all the people in the books of former ages, yet the whole story, root and branch, can dispel melancholy and break boredom, and there are some rough verses and familiar sayings in it that can make one laugh over a meal and serve as talk over wine. As for its partings and meetings, its joy and sorrow, its rise and fall and turns of fortune, these follow close upon the traces of what truly happened, and I dare not add the least embroidery to them, merely to please men’s eyes and so lose the true tradition. As for the people of today: the poor are daily burdened by food and clothing, and the rich are filled with discontent; and even if they have a moment’s leisure, there is lechery to be pursued, goods to be craved and trouble to be sought — where would they find the time to read those books of government and order? And so this tale of mine does not seek to have the world call it wonderful, nor must the world take delight in reading it; I only wish that when they are drunk with lechery and lie sated, or when they would flee the world and escape their sorrows, they might take it up and play with it — would that not save them a little of their years and their strength? Better than scheming after vanity and chasing delusion, it would also save them the harm of quarrels and gossip, and the toil of running about on their legs. Moreover, it may give the world new eyes, unlike those old manuscripts that drag things in at random, that part and meet without warning, whose pages are filled with the stock figures of gifted scholars and virtuous maids, of Zijian and Wenjun, Hongniang and Xiaoyu. What does my Master think of this?”";
/* cliff:source: 空空道人听如此說，思忖半晌，將《石頭記》再檢閱一遍，因見上面雖 有些指奸責佞貶惡誅邪之語，亦非傷時罵世之旨，及至君仁臣良父慈子孝， 凡倫常所關之處，皆是稱功頌德，眷眷無窮，實非別書之可比．雖其中大旨 談論，亦不過實錄其事，又非假擬妄稱，一味淫邀艷約，私訂偷盟之可比． 因毫不干涉時世，方從頭至尾抄錄回來，問世傳奇．從此空空道人因空見色 ，由色生情，傳情入色，自色悟空，遂易名為情僧，改《石頭記》為《情僧 錄》．東魯孔梅溪則題曰《風月寶鑒》．后因曹雪芹于悼紅軒中披閱十載， 增刪五次，纂成目錄，分出章回，則題曰《金陵十二釵》．并題一絕云： */
"chapter-1-005" = "When the Taoist of the Void heard this, he pondered for a long while, then read through The Story of the Stone once more. He saw that although it contained some words pointing out villainy and reproving flattery, censuring evil and condemning wickedness, it was not written with the aim of wounding the age or cursing the world; and wherever it touched upon the ties of human relationship — a ruler’s benevolence, a minister’s loyalty, a father’s kindness, a son’s filial piety — it was all praise of merit and celebration of virtue, tender and unending, truly beyond the comparison of other books. Though its principal discourse was no more than a true record of events, and not the invention of falsehoods and empty claims, nor such stuff as lewd invitations and wanton assignations, secret plights and stolen vows, it could not be compared with them. Since it had no bearing whatever upon the times, he copied it out from beginning to end and brought it back to publish to the world as a marvel. From then on, the Taoist of the Void, seeing form in emptiness and feeling born of form, passing feeling into form and waking to emptiness through form, changed his name to the Passionate Monk and renamed The Story of the Stone The Record of the Passionate Monk. Kong Meixi of Eastern Lu, however, gave it the title The Mirror of Wind and Moon. Later, because Cao Xueqin, in the Mourning-the-Red Pavilion, read it over for ten years, added and deleted five times, and compiled a table of contents, dividing it into chapters, he gave it the title The Twelve Beauties of Jinling. And he wrote a quatrain:";
/* cliff:source: 當日地陷東南，這東南一隅有處曰姑蘇，有城曰閶門者，最是紅塵中一 二等富貴風流之地．這閶門外有個十里街，街內有個仁清巷，巷內有個古廟 ，因地方窄狹，人皆呼作葫蘆廟．廟旁住著一家鄉宦，姓甄，名費，字士隱 ．嫡妻封氏，情性賢淑，深明禮義．家中雖不甚富貴，然本地便也推他為望 族了．因這甄士隱稟性恬淡，不以功名為念，每日只以觀花修竹，酌酒吟詩 為樂，倒是神仙一流人品．只是一件不足：如今年已半百，膝下無儿，只有 一女，乳名喚作英蓮，年方三歲． */
"chapter-1-006" = "In those days the earth had sunk away in the southeast, and in that southeastern corner there was a place called Gusu, and in it a city called Changmen, the very first or second of the wealthy and fashionable spots of the dusty world. Outside Changmen there was a Ten-Li Street, and in the street a Renqing Lane, and in the lane an old temple which, because the ground was narrow and cramped, everyone called the Gourd Temple. Beside the temple lived a country gentleman named Zhen Fei, whose courtesy name was Shiyin. His principal wife was of the Feng family, a woman of virtuous and gentle nature, deeply versed in propriety and right. Though the household was not especially rich or noble, in that locality it was reckoned a family of standing. Because this Zhen Shiyin was by nature placid and indifferent, caring nothing for rank or fame, and took his daily pleasure only in watching flowers and tending bamboo, in pouring wine and chanting poems, he was truly of the immortal kind. Only one thing was lacking: he was now fifty years old and had no son; only one daughter, whose infant name was Yinglian, just three years old.";
/* cliff:source: 一日，炎夏永晝，士隱于書房閒坐，至手倦拋書，伏几少憩，不覺朦朧 睡去．夢至一處，不辨是何地方．忽見那廂來了一僧一道，且行且談．只听 道人問道：“你攜了這蠢物，意欲何往？"那僧笑道：“你放心，如今現有 一段風流公案正該了結，這一干風流冤家，尚未投胎入世．趁此机會，就將 此蠢物夾帶于中，使他去經歷經歷。”那道人道：“原來近日風流冤孽又將 造劫歷世去不成？但不知落于何方何處？"那僧笑道：“此事說來好笑，竟 是千古未聞的罕事．只因西方靈河岸上三生石畔，有絳珠草一株，時有赤瑕 宮神瑛侍者，日以甘露灌溉，這絳珠草始得久延歲月．后來既受天地精華， 复得雨露滋養，遂得脫卻草胎木質，得換人形，僅修成個女体，終日游于离 恨天外，饑則食蜜青果為膳，渴則飲灌愁海水為湯．只因尚未酬報灌溉之德 ，故其五內便郁結著一段纏綿不盡之意．恰近日這神瑛侍者凡心偶熾，乘此 昌明太平朝世，意欲下凡造歷幻緣，已在警幻仙子案前挂了號．警幻亦曾問 及，灌溉之情未償，趁此倒可了結的．那絳珠仙子道：`他是甘露之惠，我 并無此水可還．他既下世為人，我也去下世為人，但把我一生所有的眼淚還 他，也償還得過他了．'因此一事，就勾出多少風流冤家來，陪他們去了結 此案。”那道人道：“果是罕聞．實未聞有還淚之說．想來這一段故事，比 歷來風月事故更加瑣碎細膩了。”那僧道：“歷來几個風流人物，不過傳其 大概以及詩詞篇章而已，至家庭閨閣中一飲一食，總未述記．再者，大半風 月故事，不過偷香竊玉，暗約私奔而已，并不曾將儿女之真情發泄一二．想 這一干人入世，其情痴色鬼，賢愚不肖者，悉与前人傳述不同矣。”那道人 道：“趁此何不你我也去下世度脫几個，豈不是一場功德？"那僧道：“正 合吾意，你且同我到警幻仙子宮中，將蠢物交割清楚，待這一干風流孽鬼下 世已完，你我再去．如今雖已有一半落塵，然猶未全集。”道人道：“既如 此，便隨你去來。” */
"chapter-1-007" = "One day, in the long daylight of midsummer, Shiyin was sitting idly in his study, until, his hand grown tired, he threw down his book and rested his head on the desk for a little, and without knowing it fell into a hazy sleep. He dreamed that he came to a place, though he could not tell where it was. Suddenly he saw coming from that direction a monk and a Taoist, walking on and talking as they came. He heard the Taoist ask: “You have brought this foolish creature with you — where do you mean to go?” The monk laughed and said: “Set your mind at ease. As it happens, there is a case of love that ought now to be settled, and this company of amorous foes have not yet been born into the world. I shall take this chance to smuggle this foolish creature in among them, and let him go and taste it all for himself.” The Taoist said: “So the amorous debts of late are to go down into the world to work out their calamity once more? But I wonder into what place they will fall?” The monk laughed and said: “The tale is laughable when told — it is a rare thing, unheard of in a thousand ages. Only because on the bank of the River of Spirits in the West, beside the Stone of Three Lives, there grew a plant of Crimson Pearl Grass; and there was then an Attendant of the Divine Jade of the Crimson Jade Palace who watered it daily with sweet dew, so that this Crimson Pearl Grass was able to prolong its years. Afterwards, having received the essence of Heaven and Earth and been nourished by rain and dew, it escaped its herbaceous womb and woody substance and exchanged them for human form — or rather, it attained only the form of a woman. All day long it wandered beyond the Heaven of Parting Sorrow; when hungry, it ate the Sweet Green Fruit for food, and when thirsty, it drank the waters of the Sea of Grief for soup. But because it had not yet repaid the kindness of that watering, there lay knotted in its breast a bond of endless tenderness. Just lately, this Attendant of the Divine Jade felt his mortal heart suddenly kindle, and, taking advantage of this bright and peaceful age, wished to descend to the world of men to go through a phantom destiny; and he has already recorded his name in the presence of the Goddess of Disenchantment. The Goddess of Disenchantment also once asked about the matter — the debt of the watering was still unpaid, and this was a good chance to settle it. And the Crimson Pearl Fairy said: ‘He showed me the grace of sweet dew, and I have no such water to repay him with. Since he is to go down into the world as a man, I too will go down into the world as a man; and if I give him back all the tears of my whole life, that will be repayment enough.’ And so, from this one matter, so many amorous foes have been drawn out, to accompany them and bring this case to its close.” The Taoist said: “That is rare indeed. Truly I have never heard of paying back tears. It would seem that this tale is more minute and delicate than all the tales of love in the past.” The monk said: “The several amorous personages of past ages have had no more than the general outline of their stories handed down, along with a few poems and essays; of the everyday food and drink in their families and inner chambers nothing has ever been recorded. Moreover, most tales of love are no more than stolen fragrance and pilfered jade, secret trysts and elopements, and have never released one jot of the true feelings of men and women. I think that when this company comes into the world, its passion-sick fools and its lechers, its wise and its foolish, its worthy and its worthless, will all be unlike those handed down by earlier writers.” The Taoist said: “Why not take this chance for you and me to go down into the world too, and deliver a few souls? Would that not be a work of merit?” The monk said: “That suits my mind exactly. Come with me first to the palace of the Goddess of Disenchantment and hand over this foolish creature, clear and plain; and when this company of amorous ghosts has all been born into the world, we two will follow. As it is, though half of them have already fallen into the dust, the whole set is not yet complete.” The Taoist said: “If that is so, I will go along with you.”";
/* cliff:source: 卻說甄士隱俱听得明白，但不知所云"蠢物"系何東西．遂不禁上前施禮 ，笑問道：“二仙師請了。”那僧道也忙答禮相問．士隱因說道：“适聞仙 師所談因果，實人世罕聞者．但弟子愚濁，不能洞悉明白，若蒙大開痴頑， 備細一聞，弟子則洗耳諦听，稍能警省，亦可免沉倫之苦。”二仙笑道：“ 此乃玄机不可預泄者．到那時不要忘我二人，便可跳出火坑矣。”士隱听了 ，不便再問．因笑道：“玄机不可預泄，但适云`蠢物'，不知為何，或可一 見否？"那僧道：“若問此物，倒有一面之緣。”說著，取出遞与士隱．士 隱接了看時，原來是塊鮮明美玉，上面字跡分明，鐫著"通靈寶玉"四字，后 面還有几行小字．正欲細看時，那僧便說已到幻境，便強從手中奪了去，与 道人竟過一大石牌坊，上書四個大字，乃是"太虛幻境"．兩邊又有一幅對聯 ，道是： */
"chapter-1-008" = "Now, Zhen Shiyin had heard everything clearly, but he did not know what this “foolish creature” they spoke of might be. He could not help stepping forward and saluting them, and asked with a smile: “Greetings, reverend immortals.” The monk and the Taoist hurriedly returned his greeting. Shiyin then said: “I have just heard the reverend immortals speaking of cause and effect, a thing rarely heard in the world of men. But I am dull and benighted and cannot see it clearly. If you would be so good as to open my foolish mind and let me hear it in full, I would wash my ears and listen attentively; and if I could gain even a little awakening, I might escape the misery of sinking into perdition.” The two immortals laughed: “This is a secret of Heaven that must not be revealed in advance. When the time comes, do not forget the two of us, and you may leap out of the pit of fire.” When Shiyin heard this, he did not press further. He smiled and said: “Since the secret must not be revealed in advance, I will say no more; but you spoke just now of a ‘foolish creature,’ and I do not know what it is. Might I perhaps be allowed a look?” The monk said: “As for this thing, it seems you two are fated to meet.” With that, he took it out and handed it to Shiyin. Shiyin received it and looked: it was a piece of bright and beautiful jade, on which the characters were clearly engraved — the four words “Precious Jade of Spiritual Understanding” — and behind them there were several lines of small characters. Just as he was about to look closely, the monk said they had already arrived at the realm of illusion, and snatched it forcibly from his hand; and with the Taoist he passed straight through a great stone archway, on which were written four large characters: “The Illusory Realm of the Great Void.” On either side there was also a couplet, which read:";
/* cliff:source: 這士隱正痴想，忽見隔壁葫蘆廟內寄居的一個窮儒-姓賈名化，表字時 飛，別號雨行者走了出來．這賈雨村原系胡州人氏，也是詩書仕宦之族，因 他生于末世，父母祖宗根基已盡，人口衰喪，只剩得他一身一口，在家鄉無 益，因進京求取功名，再整基業．自前歲來此，又淹蹇住了，暫寄廟中安身 ，每日賣字作文為生，故士隱常与他交接．當下雨村見了士隱，忙施禮陪笑 道：“老先生倚門佇望，敢是街市上有甚新聞否？"士隱笑道：“非也．适 因小女啼哭，引他出來作耍，正是無聊之甚，兄來得正妙，請入小齋一談， 彼此皆可消此永晝。”說著，便令人送女儿進去，自与雨村攜手來至書房中 ．小童獻茶．方談得三五句話，忽家人飛報：“嚴老爺來拜。”士隱慌的忙 起身謝罪道：“恕誑駕之罪，略坐，弟即來陪。”雨村忙起身亦讓道：“老 先生請便．晚生乃常造之客，稍候何妨。”說著，士隱已出前廳去了． */
"chapter-1-009" = "While Shiyin was still lost in this foolish reverie, he saw a poor scholar who lodged in the Gourd Temple next door come walking out — his surname was Jia, his given name Hua, his courtesy name Shifei, and his sobriquet Yuxing. This Jia Yucun was originally a man of Huzhou, of a family of scholars and officials; but because he was born in the decline of his house, when his parents’ and ancestors’ foundations were already exhausted and the family had dwindled away, so that he was left alone in the world, one body and one mouth, he found no profit at home; and so he set out for the capital to seek fame and rank and rebuild the family fortunes. He had come here the year before last, and had been stranded again, so that he lodged for the time being in the temple to keep himself alive, selling his calligraphy and writing compositions for others by day; and for this reason Shiyin often had dealings with him. Now, when Yucun saw Shiyin, he hastened to salute him and said with a smile: “Old sir, you stand leaning at your gate gazing out — can it be that there is some news in the streets?” Shiyin laughed: “Not at all. Just now my little daughter was crying, so I brought her out to play, and truly I was quite at a loss for something to do; your coming is most timely. Pray come into my little study and talk a while, and we shall both pass this long day.” So saying, he told a servant to take his daughter inside, and himself took Yucun by the hand and led him into the study. A young servant brought tea. They had exchanged scarcely three or five sentences when a servant came flying in to report: “Master Yan has come to call.” Shiyin rose in alarm and apologized: “Pray forgive my leaving you; sit here a moment, and I will be back to keep you company.” Yucun also rose at once and said: “Pray do as you please, sir. I am a frequent visitor; a little wait is no matter.” With that, Shiyin had already gone out to the front hall.";
/* cliff:source: 一日，早又中秋佳節．士隱家宴已畢，乃又另具一席于書房，卻自己步 月至廟中來邀雨村．原來雨村自那日見了甄家之婢曾回顧他兩次，自為是個 知己，便時刻放在心上．今又正值中秋，不免對月有怀，因而口占五言一律 云： */
"chapter-1-010" = "One day the Mid-Autumn Festival came round again. When the family feast was over, Shiyin laid out another table in his study, and then himself walked by moonlight to the temple to invite Yucun. Now, ever since the day when he had seen the maidservant of the Zhen household turn and look back at him twice, Yucun had taken her for a kindred spirit and had kept her constantly in his thoughts. And now, since it was Mid-Autumn again, he could not but feel his heart stirred by the moon, and so he composed offhand a regulated verse of five-character lines:";
/* cliff:source: 蟾光如有意，先上玉人樓．雨村吟罷，因又思及平生抱負，苦未逢時， 乃又搔首對天長歎，复高吟一聯曰： */
"chapter-1-011" = "If the moonlight bears me any goodwill, let it first climb the tower of the jade maiden. When Yucun had finished chanting this, he thought again of the ambition of his life and the bitterness of never having met his hour; and so he scratched his head, sighed long and loud to Heaven, and chanted aloud another couplet:";
/* cliff:source: 可巧這日拄了拐杖掙挫到街前散散心時，忽見那邊來了一個跛足道人， 瘋癲落脫，麻屣鶉衣，口內念著几句言詞，道是： */
"chapter-1-012" = "It happened that on this day he was leaning on a staff, struggling along to the street to take his mind off things, when he suddenly saw coming that way a lame Taoist, wild and bedraggled, in hemp sandals and a coat as ragged as a quail’s feathers, chanting a few words aloud, which went:";
/* cliff:source: 痴心父母古來多，孝順儿孫誰見了？士隱听了，便迎上來道：“你滿口 說些什么？只听見些`好'`了'`好'`了'．那道人笑道：“你若果听見`好'` 了'二字，還算你明白．可知世上万般，好便是了，了便是好．若不了，便 不好，若要好，須是了．我這歌儿，便名《好了歌》"士隱本是有宿慧的， 一聞此言，心中早已徹悟．因笑道：“且住！待我將你這《好了歌》解注出 來何如？"道人笑道：“你解，你解。”士隱乃說道： */
"chapter-1-013" = "Foolish parents there have always been; and dutiful children — who has seen them? When Shiyin heard this, he came up to him and said: “What is it you are saying? I heard only ‘good’ and ‘done,’ ‘good’ and ‘done.’” The Taoist laughed: “If you truly heard the words ‘good’ and ‘done,’ then you are a man of understanding after all. Do you not know that in all things under heaven, good is done, and done is good? If it is not done, then it is not good; and if you would have it good, it must needs be done. This song of mine is called The Song of Good and Done.” Shiyin was a man of innate wisdom, and at these words his heart was already wholly awakened. He laughed and said: “Wait a little! Let me make a commentary on your Song of Good and Done — how would that be?” The Taoist laughed: “Make it, make it.” So Shiyin began to speak:";
/* cliff:source: 陋室空堂，當年笏滿床，衰草枯楊，曾為歌舞場．蛛絲儿結滿雕梁，綠 紗今又糊在蓬窗上．說什么脂正濃，粉正香，如何兩鬢又成霜？昨日黃土隴 頭送白骨，今宵紅燈帳底臥鴛鴦．金滿箱，銀滿箱，展眼乞丐人皆謗．正歎 他人命不長，那知自己歸來喪！訓有方，保不定日后作強梁．擇膏粱，誰承 望流落在煙花巷！因嫌紗帽小，致使鎖枷杠，昨怜破襖寒，今嫌紫蟒長：亂 烘烘你方唱罷我登場，反認他鄉是故鄉．甚荒唐，到頭來都是為他人作嫁衣 裳！那瘋跛道人听了，拍掌笑道：“解得切，解得切！"士隱便說一聲"走罷 ！"將道人肩上褡褳搶了過來背著，竟不回家，同了瘋道人飄飄而去．當下 烘動街坊，眾人當作一件新聞傳說．封氏聞得此信，哭個死去活來，只得与 父親商議，遣人各處訪尋，那討音信？無奈何，少不得依靠著他父母度日． 幸而身邊還有兩個舊日的丫鬟伏侍，主仆三人，日夜作些針線發賣，幫著父 親用度．那封肅雖然日日抱怨，也無可奈何了． */
"chapter-1-014" = "Humble rooms and empty halls, where once the tablets of office lay heaped on the bed; withered grass and dead willows, where once were singing and dancing grounds. Spider webs fill the carved beams, and green gauze is pasted now over the door of the thatched window. Say not that the rouge is fresh and the powder sweet — how is it that the hair at the temples has already turned to frost? Yesterday at the earthen mound they buried white bones; tonight beneath the red lamp, under the curtain, lie mandarin ducks. Gold fills the chest and silver fills the chest, and in the twinkling of an eye the beggar is reviled by all. Even as you sigh that another’s life is short, how do you know that your own end has come? Though you train your children well, who can be sure they will not turn to brigandage? Though you choose the richest fare for a husband, who could have expected she would end in a lane of flowers? Because a gauze cap seemed too small, one came at last to the cangue and the pillory; yesterday you pitied the cold of a torn coat, today you complain that the purple python robe is too long: in the noisy bustle, when your song is done, I come on stage, and we mistake a foreign land for home. How absurd! When all is over, it is nothing but sewing a bridal dress for someone else! When the mad lame Taoist heard this, he clapped his hands and laughed: “Aptly explained, aptly explained!” At once Shiyin said, “Let us go!” — he snatched the bundle from the Taoist’s shoulder and hoisted it on his own back, and, without going home at all, he drifted away with the mad Taoist. This set the whole neighborhood abuzz, and everyone talked of it as a piece of news. When Madam Feng heard of it, she wept herself to the point of fainting away and dying, and could only take counsel with her father and send people everywhere to search for him — but what news was there to be had? There was nothing for it; she had no choice but to lean on her parents for her daily bread. Fortunately she still had two old maidservants to wait on her, and mistress and servants, the three of them, worked day and night at sewing to sell, helping her father with his expenses. And though that Feng Su grumbled every day, there was nothing he could do about it.";