msgid ""
msgstr ""
"Language: en-US\n"
"Content-Type: text/plain; charset=UTF-8\n"

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-001"
msgid "此開卷第一回也．作者自云：因曾歷過一番夢幻之后，故將真事隱去， 而借\"通靈\"之說，撰此《石頭記》一書也．故曰\"甄士隱\"云云．但書中所記 何事何人？自又云：“今風塵碌碌，一事無成，忽念及當日所有之女子，一 一細考較去，覺其行止見識，皆出于我之上．何我堂堂須眉，誠不若彼裙釵 哉？實愧則有余，悔又無益之大無可如何之日也！當此，則自欲將已往所賴 天恩祖德，錦衣紈褲之時，飫甘饜肥之日，背父兄教育之恩，負師友規談之 德，以至今日一技無成，半生潦倒之罪，編述一集，以告天下人：我之罪固 不免，然閨閣中本自歷歷有人，万不可因我之不肖，自護己短，一并使其泯 滅也．雖今日之茅椽蓬牖，瓦灶繩床，其晨夕風露，階柳庭花，亦未有妨我 之襟怀筆墨者．雖我未學，下筆無文，又何妨用假語村言，敷演出一段故事 來，亦可使閨閣昭傳，复可悅世之目，破人愁悶，不亦宜乎？\"故曰\"賈雨村 \"云云．"
msgstr "This is the opening chapter of the book. The author says of himself: having once passed through a dreamlike illusion, he concealed the true facts and, borrowing the tale of the 'Spiritual Stone,' wrote this book, The Story of the Stone. Hence the name Zhen Shiyin, 'Truth Hidden.' But what events and persons does the book record? He says again: 'Now, in the dusty world, I have accomplished nothing. Suddenly I recall all the women of former days and, examining them one by one, I feel that their conduct and understanding were all above mine. Why should I, a full-grown man, truly be inferior to those women? My shame is indeed more than enough; regret is useless, and there is nothing to be done. In this state, I wish to set down the days when I depended on heaven's grace and ancestral virtue, when I wore brocade and silk, when I ate rich and savory food, and yet betrayed the kindness of my father and elder brothers' teaching and failed the virtue of my teachers and friends' counsel, until today I have no skill and have wasted half my life. I shall compile a volume to tell the world: my guilt I cannot escape, but in the women's apartments there have always been remarkable people, and I must not, because of my own worthlessness, hide my faults and let them all be obliterated. Though today I have thatched eaves and a reed window, a clay stove and a rope bed, the morning and evening wind and dew, the willows by the steps and flowers in the court, do not hinder my heart and brush. Though I am unlearned and my writing lacks polish, what harm is there in using rustic speech and made-up words to elaborate a story? It may make the women's quarters known and hand down their memory, and it may also please the eyes of the world and dispel men's sorrow. Is that not fitting?' Hence the name Jia Yucun, 'False Words, Village Talk.'"

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-002"
msgid "此回中凡用“夢”用“幻”等字，是提醒閱者眼目，亦是此書立意本旨 ．"
msgstr "In this chapter, the use of such words as 'dream' and 'illusion' is meant to alert the reader's eye, and it is also the fundamental purpose of this book."

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-003"
msgid "原來女媧氏煉石補天之時，于大荒山無稽崖練成高經十二丈，方經二十 四丈頑石三万六千五百零一塊．媧皇氏只用了三万六千五百塊，只單單剩了 一塊未用，便棄在此山青埂峰下．誰知此石自經段煉之后，靈性已通，因見 眾石俱得補天，獨自己無材不堪入選，遂自怨自歎，日夜悲號慚愧．"
msgstr "When Nüwa was smelting stones to mend the sky, on the Great Waste Mountain and the Absurd Cliff she refined 36,501 stubborn stones, each twelve feet high and twenty-four feet square. Nüwa used only 36,500 of them; one alone was left unused and was cast away at the foot of Blue Ridge Peak on that mountain. Who would have thought that after this stone had been refined, it had gained spiritual understanding? Seeing that all the other stones were chosen to mend the sky, while it alone was unfit and not selected, it began to complain and sigh, grieving and ashamed day and night."

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-004"
msgid "空空道人遂向石頭說道：“石兄，你這一段故事，据你自己說有些趣味 ，故編寫在此，意欲問世傳奇．据我看來，第一件，無朝代年紀可考，第二 件，并無大賢大忠理朝廷治風俗的善政，其中只不過几個异樣女子，或情或 痴，或小才微善，亦無班姑，蔡女之德能．我縱抄去，恐世人不愛看呢。” 石頭笑答道：“我師何太痴耶！若云無朝代可考，今我師竟假借漢唐等年紀 添綴，又有何難？但我想，歷來野史，皆蹈一轍，莫如我這不借此套者，反 倒新奇別致，不過只取其事体情理罷了，又何必拘拘于朝代年紀哉！再者， 市井俗人喜看理治之書者甚少，愛适趣閒文者特多．歷來野史，或訕謗君相 ，或貶人妻女，奸淫凶惡，不可胜數．更有一种風月筆墨，其淫穢污臭，屠 毒筆墨，坏人子弟，又不可胜數．至若佳人才子等書，則又千部共出一套， 且其中終不能不涉于淫濫，以致滿紙潘安，子建，西子，文君，不過作者要 寫出自己的那兩首情詩艷賦來，故假擬出男女二人名姓，又必旁出一小人其 間撥亂，亦如劇中之小丑然．且鬟婢開口即者也之乎，非文即理．故逐一看 去，悉皆自相矛盾，大不近情理之話，竟不如我半世親睹親聞的這几個女子 ，雖不敢說強似前代書中所有之人，但事跡原委，亦可以消愁破悶，也有几 首歪詩熟話，可以噴飯供酒．至若离合悲歡，興衰際遇，則又追蹤躡跡，不 敢稍加穿鑿，徒為供人之目而反失其真傳者．今之人，貧者日為衣食所累， 富者又怀不足之心，縱然一時稍閒，又有貪淫戀色，好貨尋愁之事，那里去 有工夫看那理治之書？所以我這一段故事，也不愿世人稱奇道妙，也不定要 世人喜悅檢讀，只愿他們當那醉淫飽臥之時，或避世去愁之際，把此一玩， 豈不省了些壽命筋力？就比那謀虛逐妄，卻也省了口舌是非之害，腿腳奔忙 之．再者，亦令世人換新眼目，不比那些胡牽亂扯，忽离忽遇，滿紙才人 淑女，子建文君紅娘小玉等通共熟套之舊稿．我師意為何如？”"
msgstr "The Taoist of Vanity then said to the stone: 'Brother Stone, by your own account this story of yours has some interest; that is why it was written down here, in hopes of being passed down as a wonder. But as I see it, in the first place, there is no dynasty or date to verify it; in the second, it contains no wise and loyal ministers bringing order to court and improving morals. It has only a few unusual women—some passionate, some foolish, some of small talent and slight virtue—and none with the virtue and ability of Ban Zhao or Cai Yan. Even if I copied it out, I fear the world would not care to read it.' The stone laughed and replied: 'Why is my master so foolish? If you say there is no dynasty to verify, is it difficult for you to borrow the reign titles of the Han or Tang and add them? But I think all the unofficial histories of past ages follow the same rut. Mine, which does not borrow that formula, is instead novel and distinctive. It merely takes the essentials and reason of the matter—why must it be bound by dynasty and date? Moreover, among the common people of the marketplace, few like to read books of government and moral order; most love amusing and idle writings. The unofficial histories of the past either slander rulers and ministers, or demean other men's wives and daughters, or tell of lewdness and cruelty beyond count. There is also a kind of romantic writing, obscene and foul, poisonous to the brush, corrupting young people, also beyond count. As for books of beautiful ladies and gifted scholars, a thousand volumes come from one mold, and they cannot avoid lewdness; the pages are filled with Pan An, Cao Zhi, Xi Shi, and Zhuo Wenjun. The author merely wants to display his own two love poems and erotic rhapsodies, and so invents the names of a man and a woman, and must bring in a petty villain between them to stir up trouble, just like the clown in a play. And the maids and serving girls speak only in classical tags, either literary or moral. Looking through them one by one, they are all self-contradictory and quite unreasonable. They cannot compare with these few women I have seen and heard with my own eyes in half a lifetime. Though I dare not say they surpass all the people in earlier books, their deeds and circumstances can still dispel sorrow and break melancholy; there are also a few doggerel poems and familiar sayings to make one laugh and accompany wine. As for partings and reunions, joys and sorrows, rises and falls, I have followed the traces and dare not add the slightest fabrication, merely to please men's eyes and lose the true record. People today: the poor are daily burdened by food and clothing; the rich are discontented. Even if they have a little leisure, they have lust and greed for goods and troubles to pursue—where would they find time to read books of government and order? Therefore I do not wish the world to call this story strange or wonderful, nor do I insist that they read it with delight; I only wish that when they are drunk with lust and lying full, or when avoiding the world and fleeing sorrow, they might play with it. Would it not save them some life and strength? Compared with scheming after emptiness and chasing illusions, it also saves the harm of gossip and the bustle of legs. Moreover, it may give the world new eyes, unlike those old manuscripts that pull things together at random, now parted, now met, filled with talents and beauties, Cao Zhi and Wenjun, Hongniang and Xiaoyu, and all the worn-out conventions. What does my master think?'"

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-005"
msgid "空空道人听如此說，思忖半晌，將《石頭記》再檢閱一遍，因見上面雖 有些指奸責佞貶惡誅邪之語，亦非傷時罵世之旨，及至君仁臣良父慈子孝， 凡倫常所關之處，皆是稱功頌德，眷眷無窮，實非別書之可比．雖其中大旨 談論，亦不過實錄其事，又非假擬妄稱，一味淫邀艷約，私訂偷盟之可比． 因毫不干涉時世，方從頭至尾抄錄回來，問世傳奇．從此空空道人因空見色 ，由色生情，傳情入色，自色悟空，遂易名為情僧，改《石頭記》為《情僧 錄》．東魯孔梅溪則題曰《風月寶鑒》．后因曹雪芹于悼紅軒中披閱十載， 增刪五次，纂成目錄，分出章回，則題曰《金陵十二釵》．并題一絕云："
msgstr "When the Taoist of Vanity heard this, he pondered for a long while and went through The Story of the Stone once more. Though it contained words pointing out treachery, condemning flattery, denouncing evil, and punishing wickedness, it had no intent to wound the times or curse the world; and where it touched on the bonds of sovereign and subject, father and son, it praised virtue and merit with endless devotion, truly beyond comparison with other books. Although its main talk and discussion are no more than a true record of events, not false inventions and wild claims, it cannot be compared to mere lewd invitations and secret trysts. Because it did not interfere with the times or the world, he copied it out from beginning to end and brought it to the world as a wonder. From then on, the Taoist of Vanity, seeing form in emptiness, gave rise to feeling from form, transmitted feeling into form, and from form awakened to emptiness; he therefore changed his name to the Passionate Monk and changed The Story of the Stone to The Record of the Passionate Monk. Kong Meixi of Eastern Lu gave it the title The Precious Mirror of Wind and Moon. Later, Cao Xueqin in the Mourning-Red Studio read it over for ten years, added and deleted five times, compiled a table of contents, and divided it into chapters and episodes, giving it the title The Twelve Beauties of Jinling. He also wrote a quatrain:"

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-006"
msgid "當日地陷東南，這東南一隅有處曰姑蘇，有城曰閶門者，最是紅塵中一 二等富貴風流之地．這閶門外有個十里街，街內有個仁清巷，巷內有個古廟 ，因地方窄狹，人皆呼作葫蘆廟．廟旁住著一家鄉宦，姓甄，名費，字士隱 ．嫡妻封氏，情性賢淑，深明禮義．家中雖不甚富貴，然本地便也推他為望 族了．因這甄士隱稟性恬淡，不以功名為念，每日只以觀花修竹，酌酒吟詩 為樂，倒是神仙一流人品．只是一件不足：如今年已半百，膝下無儿，只有 一女，乳名喚作英蓮，年方三歲．"
msgstr "Long ago, when the earth sank in the southeast, in that southeastern corner there was a place called Gusu, and in it a city called Changmen, the most rich and fashionable spot in the mundane world. Outside Changmen there was Ten-Mile Street, and in the street an Alley of Benevolence and Purity. In the alley stood an old temple; because the place was narrow and cramped, everyone called it the Gourd Temple. Beside the temple lived a local official named Zhen Fei, whose courtesy name was Shiyin. His principal wife was of the Feng family, virtuous and gentle, deeply versed in propriety and righteousness. Though the household was not very wealthy, the local people regarded it as a prominent clan. Zhen Shiyin was by nature quiet and detached, caring nothing for fame or office; each day he took pleasure in watching flowers, tending bamboo, pouring wine, and chanting poetry—truly a man of immortal disposition. There was only one thing lacking: he was now past fifty, had no son, and only one daughter, whose childhood name was Yinglian, just three years old."

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-007"
msgid "一日，炎夏永晝，士隱于書房閒坐，至手倦拋書，伏几少憩，不覺朦朧 睡去．夢至一處，不辨是何地方．忽見那廂來了一僧一道，且行且談．只听 道人問道：“你攜了這蠢物，意欲何往？\"那僧笑道：“你放心，如今現有 一段風流公案正該了結，這一干風流冤家，尚未投胎入世．趁此机會，就將 此蠢物夾帶于中，使他去經歷經歷。”那道人道：“原來近日風流冤孽又將 造劫歷世去不成？但不知落于何方何處？\"那僧笑道：“此事說來好笑，竟 是千古未聞的罕事．只因西方靈河岸上三生石畔，有絳珠草一株，時有赤瑕 宮神瑛侍者，日以甘露灌溉，這絳珠草始得久延歲月．后來既受天地精華， 复得雨露滋養，遂得脫卻草胎木質，得換人形，僅修成個女体，終日游于离 恨天外，饑則食蜜青果為膳，渴則飲灌愁海水為湯．只因尚未酬報灌溉之德 ，故其五內便郁結著一段纏綿不盡之意．恰近日這神瑛侍者凡心偶熾，乘此 昌明太平朝世，意欲下凡造歷幻緣，已在警幻仙子案前挂了號．警幻亦曾問 及，灌溉之情未償，趁此倒可了結的．那絳珠仙子道：`他是甘露之惠，我 并無此水可還．他既下世為人，我也去下世為人，但把我一生所有的眼淚還 他，也償還得過他了．'因此一事，就勾出多少風流冤家來，陪他們去了結 此案。”那道人道：“果是罕聞．實未聞有還淚之說．想來這一段故事，比 歷來風月事故更加瑣碎細膩了。”那僧道：“歷來几個風流人物，不過傳其 大概以及詩詞篇章而已，至家庭閨閣中一飲一食，總未述記．再者，大半風 月故事，不過偷香竊玉，暗約私奔而已，并不曾將儿女之真情發泄一二．想 這一干人入世，其情痴色鬼，賢愚不肖者，悉与前人傳述不同矣。”那道人 道：“趁此何不你我也去下世度脫几個，豈不是一場功德？\"那僧道：“正 合吾意，你且同我到警幻仙子宮中，將蠢物交割清楚，待這一干風流孽鬼下 世已完，你我再去．如今雖已有一半落塵，然猶未全集。”道人道：“既如 此，便隨你去來。”"
msgstr "One day, in the long daylight of midsummer, Shiyin was sitting idly in his study. When his hand grew tired, he threw down his book, leaned on the table for a short rest, and before he knew it had dozed off into a hazy sleep. He dreamed he came to a place and could not tell where it was. Suddenly he saw a monk and a Taoist approaching from that side, walking and talking. He heard the Taoist ask: 'What do you mean to do with that stupid thing you are carrying?' The monk laughed: 'Set your mind at ease. At present there is a romantic case that ought to be settled, and these romantic lovers have not yet been reborn into the world. Taking this opportunity, I will tuck this stupid thing in among them and let it go through some experience.' The Taoist said: 'So lately these romantic sinners are going to undergo tribulation in the world again? But I wonder where they will fall?' The monk laughed: 'This will make you laugh—it is indeed a rare matter unheard of through the ages. It is only because on the bank of the Spiritual River in the West, beside the Three-Life Stone, there is a Crimson Pearl Grass. At that time the Attendant Shenying in the Palace of Red Jade watered it daily with sweet dew, and so the Crimson Pearl Grass was able to prolong its years. Later, having received the essence of heaven and earth and the nourishment of rain and dew, it was able to shed its grass-and-wood nature and take human form—though it only cultivated a female body. All day it wandered beyond the Heaven of Parting Sorrow; when hungry, it ate honey-green fruit as its meal; when thirsty, it drank the sea of grief as its soup. Only because it had not yet repaid the kindness of watering, a lingering, unending feeling had gathered within it. Just now this Attendant Shenying's mortal heart was suddenly inflamed, and taking advantage of this bright and peaceful age, he wished to descend to the mortal world to experience an illusory destiny. He has already registered before the fairy Disenchantment. Disenchantment also asked about it: since the debt of watering had not been repaid, this would be a good chance to settle it. The Crimson Pearl Fairy said: “He gave me the grace of sweet dew, and I have no such water to repay him. Since he is going down into the world as a man, I too will go down as a woman, and I will repay him with all the tears of my life—that should be enough to repay him.” Because of this one matter, how many romantic lovers were drawn in to accompany them and settle the case.' The Taoist said: 'That is indeed rare. I have never heard of repaying tears. This story must be more intricate and delicate than any past tale of love.' The monk said: 'The few romantic figures of the past have only had their general outlines and poems handed down; nothing of their food and drink in the inner quarters has ever been recorded. Moreover, most love stories are no more than stolen fragrance and jade, secret trysts and elopements; they have never expressed one or two parts of the true feelings of men and women. I think when these people enter the world, their infatuations, lusts, worthies, fools, and worthless ones will all be different from what earlier writers have told.' The Taoist said: 'Why not take this chance and let you and I also go down into the world to convert a few? Would that not be a merit?' The monk said: 'That suits my mind. You come with me to the palace of the fairy Disenchantment and hand over this stupid thing clearly. When these romantic ghosts have all been reborn, you and I will go too. Now, though half of them have already fallen into the dust, they are not yet all assembled.' The Taoist said: 'Since that is so, I will go with you.'"

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-008"
msgid "卻說甄士隱俱听得明白，但不知所云\"蠢物\"系何東西．遂不禁上前施禮 ，笑問道：“二仙師請了。”那僧道也忙答禮相問．士隱因說道：“适聞仙 師所談因果，實人世罕聞者．但弟子愚濁，不能洞悉明白，若蒙大開痴頑， 備細一聞，弟子則洗耳諦听，稍能警省，亦可免沉倫之苦。”二仙笑道：“ 此乃玄机不可預泄者．到那時不要忘我二人，便可跳出火坑矣。”士隱听了 ，不便再問．因笑道：“玄机不可預泄，但适云`蠢物'，不知為何，或可一 見否？\"那僧道：“若問此物，倒有一面之緣。”說著，取出遞与士隱．士 隱接了看時，原來是塊鮮明美玉，上面字跡分明，鐫著\"通靈寶玉\"四字，后 面還有几行小字．正欲細看時，那僧便說已到幻境，便強從手中奪了去，与 道人竟過一大石牌坊，上書四個大字，乃是\"太虛幻境\"．兩邊又有一幅對聯 ，道是："
msgstr "Now Shiyin heard everything clearly, but he did not know what the stupid thing was. Unable to restrain himself, he stepped forward, bowed, and asked with a smile: 'Greetings, immortal masters.' The monk and the Taoist quickly returned his bow. Shiyin then said: 'I have just heard the immortal masters speak of cause and effect, a thing rarely heard in the world. But your disciple is dull and cannot understand clearly. If you would graciously open my foolish understanding and let me hear it in detail, I would listen respectfully; if I could gain a little awakening, I might escape the suffering of sinking into perdition.' The two immortals laughed: 'This is a mystery that must not be revealed in advance. When the time comes, do not forget the two of us, and you will be able to leap out of the pit of fire.' Hearing this, Shiyin did not press further. He smiled and said: 'The mystery may not be revealed in advance, but what was that stupid thing you just mentioned? I do not know what it is—perhaps I may see it?' The monk said: 'If you ask about this thing, you actually have a chance to meet it once.' With that, he took it out and handed it to Shiyin. Shiyin received it and looked: it was a bright and beautiful jade, with clear writing on it, engraved with the four characters 'Spiritual Precious Jade,' and behind it several lines of small characters. Just as he was about to look closely, the monk said they had already arrived at the realm of illusion, and forcibly snatched it from his hand. He and the Taoist then passed through a great stone archway inscribed with four large characters: 'The Realm of Great Illusion.' On either side was a couplet that read:"

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-009"
msgid "這士隱正痴想，忽見隔壁葫蘆廟內寄居的一個窮儒-姓賈名化，表字時 飛，別號雨行者走了出來．這賈雨村原系胡州人氏，也是詩書仕宦之族，因 他生于末世，父母祖宗根基已盡，人口衰喪，只剩得他一身一口，在家鄉無 益，因進京求取功名，再整基業．自前歲來此，又淹蹇住了，暫寄廟中安身 ，每日賣字作文為生，故士隱常与他交接．當下雨村見了士隱，忙施禮陪笑 道：“老先生倚門佇望，敢是街市上有甚新聞否？\"士隱笑道：“非也．适 因小女啼哭，引他出來作耍，正是無聊之甚，兄來得正妙，請入小齋一談， 彼此皆可消此永晝。”說著，便令人送女儿進去，自与雨村攜手來至書房中 ．小童獻茶．方談得三五句話，忽家人飛報：“嚴老爺來拜。”士隱慌的忙 起身謝罪道：“恕誑駕之罪，略坐，弟即來陪。”雨村忙起身亦讓道：“老 老先生請便．晚生乃常造之客，稍候何妨。”說著，士隱已出前廳去了．"
msgstr "While Shiyin was lost in foolish thoughts, he suddenly saw a poor scholar who lodged in the Gourd Temple next door come out. His surname was Jia, his given name Hua, his courtesy name Shifei, his sobriquet Yucun. This Jia Yucun was originally from Huzhou and belonged to a family of scholars and officials. Because he was born in a declining age, his parents and ancestors' foundations were exhausted and the family had dwindled, leaving only him alone. Having no prospects in his native place, he went to the capital to seek fame and rebuild the family fortune. Since coming here two years before, he had again been stranded and temporarily lodged in the temple, making a living by selling his calligraphy and writing for others, so Shiyin often associated with him. Now when Yucun saw Shiyin, he quickly bowed and smiled: 'Old sir, leaning by the gate and gazing out, may I ask if there is any news in the market?' Shiyin smiled: 'No. Just now my little daughter was crying, so I brought her out to play. I was extremely bored, and your coming is most timely. Please come into my study and talk; we can both pass this long day.' With that, he had his daughter taken inside, and taking Yucun's hand, he led him to the study. A servant boy served tea. They had talked only a few sentences when a family servant came rushing in to report: 'Mr. Yan is here to pay a visit.' Shiyin rose in alarm and apologized: 'Forgive me for imposing on your visit. Sit for a moment; I will be back to keep you company.' Yucun also quickly rose and said: 'Old sir, please go. I am a frequent visitor; waiting a little is no trouble.' As he spoke, Shiyin had already gone out to the front hall."

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-010"
msgid "一日，早又中秋佳節．士隱家宴已畢，乃又另具一席于書房，卻自己步 月至廟中來邀雨村．原來雨村自那日見了甄家之婢曾回顧他兩次，自為是個 知己，便時刻放在心上．今又正值中秋，不免對月有怀，因而口占五言一律 云："
msgstr "One day, the Mid-Autumn Festival came again. After the family banquet was over, Shiyin prepared another feast in his study and walked over to the temple by moonlight to invite Yucun. It turned out that ever since the day Yucun had seen the Zhen family's maid turn and look at him twice, he had considered her a true confidante and kept her constantly in his heart. Now it was Mid-Autumn again, and he could not help feeling stirred by the moon; so he improvised a five-character regulated verse:"

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-011"
msgid "蟾光如有意，先上玉人樓．雨村吟罷，因又思及平生抱負，苦未逢時， 乃又搔首對天長歎，复高吟一聯曰："
msgstr "'If the moonlight has any feeling, let it first climb the jade beauty's tower.' After Yucun finished chanting, he thought again of his lifelong ambitions and his bitter failure to meet the right time. He scratched his head, sighed deeply at heaven, and chanted another couplet aloud:"

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-012"
msgid "可巧這日拄了拐杖掙挫到街前散散心時，忽見那邊來了一個跛足道人， 瘋癲落脫，麻屣鶉衣，口內念著几句言詞，道是："
msgstr "It happened that on this day, as he leaned on a cane and struggled to the street to divert himself, he suddenly saw a lame Taoist coming from that direction—mad and slovenly, in straw sandals and a ragged quail-coat, chanting a few words:"

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-013"
msgid "痴心父母古來多，孝順儿孫誰見了？士隱听了，便迎上來道：“你滿口 說些什么？只听見些`好'`了'`好'`了'．那道人笑道：“你若果听見`好'` 了'二字，還算你明白．可知世上万般，好便是了，了便是好．若不了，便 不好，若要好，須是了．我這歌儿，便名《好了歌》\"士隱本是有宿慧的， 一聞此言，心中早已徹悟．因笑道：“且住！待我將你這《好了歌》解注出 來何如？\"道人笑道：“你解，你解。”士隱乃說道："
msgstr "'Infatuated parents have been many since ancient times; who has seen filial children and grandchildren?' When Shiyin heard this, he went up to him and said: 'What are you saying all this for? I only heard “good” and “done,” “good” and “done.”' The Taoist laughed: 'If you truly heard the words “good” and “done,” you are still somewhat clear-sighted. You should know that in all things of this world, good is done, and done is good. If not done, it is not good; if you want good, you must be done. This song of mine is called “The Song of Good and Done.”' Shiyin was originally one who had wisdom from a former life. Hearing these words, his heart was already thoroughly awakened. He smiled and said: 'Wait! Let me make a commentary on your “Song of Good and Done,” how about that?' The Taoist laughed: 'You comment, you comment.' Shiyin then said:"

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-014"
msgid "陋室空堂，當年笏滿床，衰草枯楊，曾為歌舞場．蛛絲儿結滿雕梁，綠 紗今又糊在蓬窗上．說什么脂正濃，粉正香，如何兩鬢又成霜？昨日黃土隴 頭送白骨，今宵紅燈帳底臥鴛鴦．金滿箱，銀滿箱，展眼乞丐人皆謗．正歎 他人命不長，那知自己歸來喪！訓有方，保不定日后作強梁．擇膏粱，誰承 望流落在煙花巷！因嫌紗帽小，致使鎖枷杠，昨怜破襖寒，今嫌紫蟒長：亂 烘烘你方唱罷我登場，反認他鄉是故鄉．甚荒唐，到頭來都是為他人作嫁衣 裳！那瘋跛道人听了，拍掌笑道：“解得切，解得切！\"士隱便說一聲\"走罷 ！\"將道人肩上褡褳搶了過來背著，竟不回家，同了瘋道人飄飄而去．當下 烘動街坊，眾人當作一件新聞傳說．封氏聞得此信，哭個死去活來，只得与 父親商議，遣人各處訪尋，那討音信？無奈何，少不得依靠著他父母度日． 幸而身邊還有兩個舊日的丫鬟伏侍，主仆三人，日夜作些針線發賣，幫著父 親用度．那封肅雖然日日抱怨，也無可奈何了．"
msgstr "'Mean rooms and empty halls—once a bed was piled with official tablets; withered grass and dead willows—once a place of song and dance. Spider webs fill the carved beams; today green gauze is pasted on the thatched window. What of the time when rouge was thick and powder fragrant? How have the temples turned to frost? Yesterday a white skeleton was seen off at the yellow earth mound; tonight a pair of lovebirds lies beneath the red lantern bed-curtains. Gold fills the chest, silver fills the chest; in the blink of an eye, as a beggar everyone reviles him. Just as he laments that another's life is short, he does not know that he himself has returned to die! Though one teaches one's son properly, there is no guarantee he will not become a bandit. Though one chooses rich food, who would expect to end up in a house of ill fame? Because one resents one's gauze cap being too small, one ends up in chains and cangue. Yesterday one pitied another for his torn coat and cold; today one resents one's purple python robe for being too long. In the noisy bustle, you finish your song and I go onstage; one mistakes a foreign land for one's homeland. How absurd—in the end, all is making wedding clothes for others!' When the mad lame Taoist heard this, he clapped his hands and laughed: 'A fitting interpretation, a fitting interpretation!' Shiyin then said, 'Let's go!' He snatched the Taoist's bundle from his shoulder, carried it on his back, and without going home, went off floating away with the mad Taoist. At once the neighborhood was in an uproar; everyone took it as a piece of news to spread. When Madam Feng heard the news, she wept herself half dead. She had no choice but to consult her father and send people everywhere to search—but how could any word be found? There was nothing to be done; she had to rely on her parents to get by. Fortunately she still had two old maidservants to wait on her. Mistress and servants, three in all, did needlework day and night to sell and help her father's expenses. Although Feng Su grumbled every day, there was nothing he could do."