msgid ""
msgstr ""
"Language: en-US\n"
"Content-Type: text/plain; charset=UTF-8\n"

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-001"
msgid "此開卷第一回也．作者自云：因曾歷過一番夢幻之后，故將真事隱去， 而借\"通靈\"之說，撰此《石頭記》一書也．故曰\"甄士隱\"云云．但書中所記 何事何人？自又云：“今風塵碌碌，一事無成，忽念及當日所有之女子，一 一細考較去，覺其行止見識，皆出于我之上．何我堂堂須眉，誠不若彼裙釵 哉？實愧則有余，悔又無益之大無可如何之日也！當此，則自欲將已往所賴 天恩祖德，錦衣紈褲之時，飫甘饜肥之日，背父兄教育之恩，負師友規談之 德，以至今日一技無成，半生潦倒之罪，編述一集，以告天下人：我之罪固 不免，然閨閣中本自歷歷有人，万不可因我之不肖，自護己短，一并使其泯 滅也．雖今日之茅椽蓬牖，瓦灶繩床，其晨夕風露，階柳庭花，亦未有妨我 之襟怀筆墨者．雖我未學，下筆無文，又何妨用假語村言，敷演出一段故事 來，亦可使閨閣昭傳，复可悅世之目，破人愁悶，不亦宜乎？\"故曰\"賈雨村 \"云云．"
msgstr "This is the opening chapter of the book. In the author's own words: 'Having passed through a dream of sorts, I have hidden the true facts and borrowed the tale of the \"Spiritual Stone\" to write this book, The Story of the Stone. Hence the name Zhen Shiyin (Hidden Truth).' But what events and what people does the book record? The author also says: 'Now, in the dusty world of men, I have accomplished nothing. Suddenly I think of all the girls of former days, and as I carefully examine them one by one, I find that their conduct and understanding are all superior to mine. How is it that I, a full-grown man, am truly not the equal of those women? Truly, my shame is more than enough, and regret is of no avail in this utterly helpless situation! Therefore I wish to commit to writing the days when, relying on heaven's grace and my ancestors' virtue, I wore brocade and silk, and ate fine food; how I betrayed the kindness of my father and elder brothers' teaching, and failed the guidance of my teachers and friends; and how to this day I have no skill, and half my life has been wasted—all this I have compiled into a volume to tell the world. My guilt is indeed unavoidable, but the womenfolk of the inner chambers have always been worthy; I must not, because of my own unworthiness, conceal my faults and allow them all to be obliterated. Though now I live in a thatched hut with a wicker window, with a clay stove and a rope bed, yet the morning and evening wind and dew, the willows by the steps and flowers in the courtyard, do not hinder my feelings and my brush. Though I am unlearned and have no literary grace, what harm is there in using fictional words and rustic speech to weave a story, which may make known the women's virtues, and also please the eyes of the world, dispel people's sorrow, and is it not fitting?' Hence the name Jia Yucun (False Words, Rustic Speech)."

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-002"
msgid "此回中凡用“夢”用“幻”等字，是提醒閱者眼目，亦是此書立意本旨 ．"
msgstr "In this chapter, the frequent use of such words as \"dream\" and \"illusion\" is meant to alert the reader's eye, and is also the fundamental purpose of this book."

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-003"
msgid "原來女媧氏煉石補天之時，于大荒山無稽崖練成高經十二丈，方經二十 四丈頑石三万六千五百零一塊．媧皇氏只用了三万六千五百塊，只單單剩了 一塊未用，便棄在此山青埂峰下．誰知此石自經段煉之后，靈性已通，因見 眾石俱得補天，獨自己無材不堪入選，遂自怨自歎，日夜悲號慚愧．"
msgstr "It all began when Nüwa, in smelting stones to repair the sky, refined at the Great Famine Mountain, on the Incredible Crag, blocks of stone twelve feet high and twenty-four feet square, to the number of thirty-six thousand five hundred and one. The Queen of Nüwa used only thirty-six thousand five hundred of them, and there was left one single block unused, which she discarded at the foot of the Green Ridge Peak on that mountain. Little did she know that this stone, after being refined, had already gained spiritual understanding, and when it saw that all the other stones were able to repair the sky, while it alone, being without talent, was unworthy of selection, it began to complain and sigh, lamenting and feeling ashamed day and night."

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-004"
msgid "空空道人遂向石頭說道：“石兄，你這一段故事，据你自己說有些趣味 ，故編寫在此，意欲問世傳奇．据我看來，第一件，無朝代年紀可考，第二 件，并無大賢大忠理朝廷治風俗的善政，其中只不過几個异樣女子，或情或 痴，或小才微善，亦無班姑，蔡女之德能．我縱抄去，恐世人不愛看呢。” 石頭笑答道：“我師何太痴耶！若云無朝代可考，今我師竟假借漢唐等年紀 添綴，又有何難？但我想，歷來野史，皆蹈一轍，莫如我這不借此套者，反 倒新奇別致，不過只取其事体情理罷了，又何必拘拘于朝代年紀哉！再者， 市井俗人喜看理治之書者甚少，愛适趣閒文者特多．歷來野史，或訕謗君相 ，或貶人妻女，奸淫凶惡，不可胜數．更有一种風月筆墨，其淫穢污臭，屠 毒筆墨，坏人子弟，又不可胜數．至若佳人才子等書，則又千部共出一套， 且其中終不能不涉于淫濫，以致滿紙潘安，子建，西子，文君，不過作者要 寫出自己的那兩首情詩艷賦來，故假擬出男女二人名姓，又必旁出一小人其 間撥亂，亦如劇中之小丑然．且鬟婢開口即者也之乎，非文即理．故逐一看 去，悉皆自相矛盾，大不近情理之話，竟不如我半世親睹親聞的這几個女子 ，雖不敢說強似前代書中所有之人，但事跡原委，亦可以消愁破悶，也有几 首歪詩熟話，可以噴飯供酒．至若离合悲歡，興衰際遇，則又追蹤躡跡，不 敢稍加穿鑿，徒為供人之目而反失其真傳者．今之人，貧者日為衣食所累， 富者又怀不足之心，縱然一時稍閒，又有貪淫戀色，好貨尋愁之事，那里去 有工夫看那理治之書？所以我這一段故事，也不愿世人稱奇道妙，也不定要 世人喜悅檢讀，只愿他們當那醉淫飽臥之時，或避世去愁之際，把此一玩， 豈不省了些壽命筋力？就比那謀虛逐妄，卻也省了口舌是非之害，腿腳奔忙 之．再者，亦令世人換新眼目，不比那些胡牽亂扯，忽离忽遇，滿紙才人 淑女，子建文君紅娘小玉等通共熟套之舊稿．我師意為何如？”"
msgstr "The Taoist of Emptiness then said to the Stone: \"Stone brother, this story of yours, by your own account, has some interest, and so you have written it here, wishing to publish it as a marvel to the world. In my view, first, there is no dynasty or date to verify it; second, there are no great sages or loyal ministers governing the court and reforming customs, no good government. There are only a few unusual women, some passionate, some foolish, some with small talents and slight virtues, and not even the virtue and ability of Ban Gu or Cai Yan. Even if I copied it and took it out, I fear the world would not love to read it.\" The Stone laughed and replied: \"Master, why are you so foolish? If you say there is no dynasty to verify, why not borrow the reign titles of Han or Tang and add them? What difficulty is there? But I think: all the unofficial histories of past ages follow the same rut. It would be better to be like mine, which does not borrow that framework, and is instead new and distinctive. It only takes the essential nature and reason of events; why must one be bound by dynasty and date? Moreover, among city idlers, few like to read books of governance, while many love amusing and idle writings. Past unofficial histories either slander rulers and ministers, or demean other men's wives and daughters; lewdness, cruelty, and wickedness are countless. There is also a kind of writing of wind and moon, obscene and filthy, poisonous to the brush, corrupting the young—also countless. As for books of beautiful ladies and talented scholars, a thousand volumes share the same formula, and they cannot avoid lewdness and excess, so that the pages are filled with Pan An, Cao Zhi, Xi Shi, Zhuo Wenjun—but it is only that the author wants to show off his own two love poems and flowery rhapsodies, and so invents names for a man and a woman, and must also bring in a petty villain to stir up trouble, just like a clown in a play. And the maidservants open their mouths with 'thee' and 'thou', 'is it not so?', nothing but literary and philosophical talk. So, looking at them one by one, they are all self-contradictory, and greatly contrary to reason and feeling. They are not even equal to these few women I have seen and heard with my own eyes in half a lifetime. Though I dare not say they are superior to all the people in previous books, yet the whole story can dispel sorrow and break boredom, and there are a few doggerel verses and familiar sayings that can make one spit out one's food and supply conversation for wine. As for partings and reunions, joys and sorrows, rise and fall, and fortunes met, I have followed and tracked them closely, not daring to add even a little fabrication, lest I merely serve people's eyes and lose the true transmission. People today: the poor are daily burdened by food and clothing; the rich are discontented. Even if they have a little leisure, they have lust and lewdness, love of goods and seeking of amusement—where have they the time to read those books of governance? Therefore I do not wish the world to praise my story as wonderful, nor do I insist that the world delight in reading it. I only wish that when they are drunk and lying full, or when avoiding the world and escaping sorrow, they might take it up for amusement—would it not save them some longevity and strength? Compared with scheming after emptiness and chasing illusions, it also saves the harm of gossip and quarrels and the bustle of running about. Moreover, it also gives the world a new eye, unlike those old manuscripts that drag in things at random, with sudden partings and meetings, pages full of talents and beauties—Cao Zhi, Zhuo Wenjun, Hongniang, Xiaoyu—all common clichés. What does my master think of it?\""

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-005"
msgid "空空道人听如此說，思忖半晌，將《石頭記》再檢閱一遍，因見上面雖 有些指奸責佞貶惡誅邪之語，亦非傷時罵世之旨，及至君仁臣良父慈子孝， 凡倫常所關之處，皆是稱功頌德，眷眷無窮，實非別書之可比．雖其中大旨 談論，亦不過實錄其事，又非假擬妄稱，一味淫邀艷約，私訂偷盟之可比． 因毫不干涉時世，方從頭至尾抄錄回來，問世傳奇．從此空空道人因空見色 ，由色生情，傳情入色，自色悟空，遂易名為情僧，改《石頭記》為《情僧 錄》．東魯孔梅溪則題曰《風月寶鑒》．后因曹雪芹于悼紅軒中披閱十載， 增刪五次，纂成目錄，分出章回，則題曰《金陵十二釵》．并題一絕云："
msgstr "When the Taoist of Emptiness heard this, he pondered for a long while, then examined The Story of the Stone again from beginning to end. He saw that although it contained some words pointing out wickedness, condemning flattery, denouncing evil and punishing villainy, it was not intended to wound the times or revile the world. As for the parts concerning the benevolence of rulers, the goodness of ministers, the kindness of fathers and the filial piety of sons—wherever human relations were involved, it was all praise of merit and virtue, endless and affectionate, truly beyond comparison with other books. Though its main theme and discussions were but a true record of events, not false invention or wild assertion, it could not be compared to those writings of mere lewd invitations and amorous appointments, private pledges and secret oaths. Since it did not interfere with the times at all, he copied it from beginning to end and took it out to publish as a marvel to the world. From then on, because the Taoist of Emptiness saw form in emptiness, and from form begot feeling, transmitted feeling into form, and from form awakened to emptiness, he changed his name to the Monk of Feeling, and changed The Story of the Stone to The Record of the Monk of Feeling. Kong Meixi of Eastern Lu inscribed it as The Precious Mirror of Wind and Moon. Later, because Cao Xueqin, in the Mourning Red Pavilion, read it for ten years, added and deleted five times, compiled a table of contents, and divided it into chapters and sections, he titled it The Twelve Beauties of Jinling. And he wrote a quatrain:"

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-006"
msgid "當日地陷東南，這東南一隅有處曰姑蘇，有城曰閶門者，最是紅塵中一 二等富貴風流之地．這閶門外有個十里街，街內有個仁清巷，巷內有個古廟 ，因地方窄狹，人皆呼作葫蘆廟．廟旁住著一家鄉宦，姓甄，名費，字士隱 ．嫡妻封氏，情性賢淑，深明禮義．家中雖不甚富貴，然本地便也推他為望 族了．因這甄士隱稟性恬淡，不以功名為念，每日只以觀花修竹，酌酒吟詩 為樂，倒是神仙一流人品．只是一件不足：如今年已半百，膝下無儿，只有 一女，乳名喚作英蓮，年方三歲．"
msgstr "In those days, when the earth sank in the southeast, in that southeastern corner there was a place called Gusu, and in it a city called Changmen, which was one of the most wealthy and fashionable spots in the world of men. Outside Changmen there was a street called Ten Li Street, and in the street a lane called Renqing Lane, and in the lane an old temple, which, because the place was narrow, everyone called the Gourd Temple. Next to the temple lived a country gentleman named Zhen Fei, whose courtesy name was Shiyin. His wife was of the Feng family, virtuous and gentle, deeply understanding propriety and righteousness. Though the family was not very wealthy, yet locally they were considered a prominent clan. Because Zhen Shiyin was by nature tranquil and indifferent, not caring for fame or official rank, and daily took pleasure in viewing flowers, tending bamboo, pouring wine, and chanting poems, he was indeed of the immortal sort. There was only one thing lacking: he was now over fifty, had no son, only one daughter, whose childhood name was Yinglian, just three years old."

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-007"
msgid "一日，炎夏永晝，士隱于書房閒坐，至手倦拋書，伏几少憩，不覺朦朧 睡去．夢至一處，不辨是何地方．忽見那廂來了一僧一道，且行且談．只听 道人問道：“你攜了這蠢物，意欲何往？\"那僧笑道：“你放心，如今現有 一段風流公案正該了結，這一干風流冤家，尚未投胎入世．趁此机會，就將 此蠢物夾帶于中，使他去經歷經歷。”那道人道：“原來近日風流冤孽又將 造劫歷世去不成？但不知落于何方何處？\"那僧笑道：“此事說來好笑，竟 是千古未聞的罕事．只因西方靈河岸上三生石畔，有絳珠草一株，時有赤瑕 宮神瑛侍者，日以甘露灌溉，這絳珠草始得久延歲月．后來既受天地精華， 复得雨露滋養，遂得脫卻草胎木質，得換人形，僅修成個女体，終日游于离 恨天外，饑則食蜜青果為膳，渴則飲灌愁海水為湯．只因尚未酬報灌溉之德 ，故其五內便郁結著一段纏綿不盡之意．恰近日這神瑛侍者凡心偶熾，乘此 昌明太平朝世，意欲下凡造歷幻緣，已在警幻仙子案前挂了號．警幻亦曾問 及，灌溉之情未償，趁此倒可了結的．那絳珠仙子道：`他是甘露之惠，我 并無此水可還．他既下世為人，我也去下世為人，但把我一生所有的眼淚還 他，也償還得過他了．'因此一事，就勾出多少風流冤家來，陪他們去了結 此案。”那道人道：“果是罕聞．實未聞有還淚之說．想來這一段故事，比 歷來風月事故更加瑣碎細膩了。”那僧道：“歷來几個風流人物，不過傳其 大概以及詩詞篇章而已，至家庭閨閣中一飲一食，總未述記．再者，大半風 月故事，不過偷香竊玉，暗約私奔而已，并不曾將儿女之真情發泄一二．想 這一干人入世，其情痴色鬼，賢愚不肖者，悉与前人傳述不同矣。”那道人 道：“趁此何不你我也去下世度脫几個，豈不是一場功德？\"那僧道：“正 合吾意，你且同我到警幻仙子宮中，將蠢物交割清楚，待這一干風流孽鬼下 世已完，你我再去．如今雖已有一半落塵，然猶未全集。”道人道：“既如 此，便隨你去來。”"
msgstr "One day, in the long daylight of midsummer, Shiyin was sitting idly in his study. When his hand grew tired and he threw down his book, he leaned on the table to rest a while, and without realizing it fell into a drowsy sleep. He dreamed he came to a place, and could not tell what place it was. Suddenly he saw coming from that side a monk and a Taoist, walking and talking together. He heard the Taoist ask: \"Where are you taking that stupid creature?\" The monk laughed and said: \"Set your mind at ease. At present there is a case of love and romance that ought to be settled. A group of amorous enemies have not yet been reincarnated into the world. Taking this opportunity, I will smuggle this stupid creature in among them, and let him go and experience it.\" The Taoist said: \"So the amorous debts of recent days will again create calamity and go through the world? But I do not know where they will fall?\" The monk laughed and said: \"This is amusing to tell—it is a rare thing unheard of through the ages. It is only because on the bank of the Spiritual River in the West, by the Three Life Stone, there is a Crimson Pearl Grass. From time to time the Attendant of the Divine Jade in the Palace of Red Jade waters it daily with sweet dew, and this Crimson Pearl Grass is able to prolong its years. Later, having received the essence of heaven and earth, and again the nourishment of rain and dew, it was able to shed its grass womb and wooden substance, and take on human form. It only cultivated into a female body, and all day wandered beyond the Heaven of Parting Sorrow. When hungry, it ate the fruit of the honey-green tree as its meal; when thirsty, it drank the water of the Sea of Pouring Sorrow as its soup. It was only because it had not yet repaid the virtue of the watering, so within its breast there was knotted a lingering, endless feeling. Just recently this Attendant of the Divine Jade had his worldly heart suddenly roused, and taking advantage of this bright and peaceful reign, wished to descend to the mortal world to experience an illusory destiny. He has already registered his name before the Fairy of Warning Illusion. The Fairy of Warning Illusion also asked about it, saying that since the debt of watering was not yet repaid, this was a good opportunity to settle it. The Crimson Pearl Fairy said: 'He gave me the grace of sweet dew, but I have no such water to repay him. Since he will descend to the world as a human, I too will descend to the world as a human. But I will repay him with all the tears of my whole life, and that will be enough to repay him.' Because of this one matter, many amorous enemies were drawn in, to accompany them and settle this case.\" The Taoist said: \"This is indeed rarely heard. I have truly never heard of repaying tears. I think this story is more trifling and delicate than all the love affairs of the past.\" The monk said: \"In the past, for a few romantic figures, only the general outline and their poems and compositions were handed down; as for the drinks and food in the family and the women's chambers, none was ever recorded. Moreover, most love stories are merely stealing fragrance and jade, secret appointments and elopements, and have never released even a little of the true feelings of boys and girls. I think when this group of people enter the world, their infatuations and lechers, their worthy and foolish and unworthy, will all be different from what former generations have transmitted.\" The Taoist said: \"Why not take this opportunity for you and me to descend to the world and save a few? Would that not be a meritorious deed?\" The monk said: \"That suits my mind exactly. You come with me to the palace of the Fairy of Warning Illusion, and hand over this stupid creature clearly. Wait until this group of amorous ghosts has finished descending to the world, and then we two will go. Now, though half have already fallen into the dust, they are not yet all assembled.\" The Taoist said: \"Since it is so, I will follow you.\""

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-008"
msgid "卻說甄士隱俱听得明白，但不知所云\"蠢物\"系何東西．遂不禁上前施禮 ，笑問道：“二仙師請了。”那僧道也忙答禮相問．士隱因說道：“适聞仙 師所談因果，實人世罕聞者．但弟子愚濁，不能洞悉明白，若蒙大開痴頑， 備細一聞，弟子則洗耳諦听，稍能警省，亦可免沉倫之苦。”二仙笑道：“ 此乃玄机不可預泄者．到那時不要忘我二人，便可跳出火坑矣。”士隱听了 ，不便再問．因笑道：“玄机不可預泄，但适云`蠢物'，不知為何，或可一 見否？\"那僧道：“若問此物，倒有一面之緣。”說著，取出遞与士隱．士 隱接了看時，原來是塊鮮明美玉，上面字跡分明，鐫著\"通靈寶玉\"四字，后 面還有几行小字．正欲細看時，那僧便說已到幻境，便強從手中奪了去，与 道人竟過一大石牌坊，上書四個大字，乃是\"太虛幻境\"．兩邊又有一幅對聯 ，道是："
msgstr "Now Zhen Shiyin had heard everything clearly, but he did not know what that \"stupid creature\" was. He could not help stepping forward and saluting, and asked with a smile: \"Greetings, two immortal masters.\" The monk and the Taoist hurriedly returned the greeting and asked after him. Shiyin then said: \"I just heard the immortal masters discussing cause and effect, which is truly rarely heard in the world. But your disciple is foolish and dull, and cannot understand clearly. If you would be so kind as to open my foolish mind and let me hear the details, I would listen respectfully, and if I could gain a little awakening, I might avoid the suffering of drowning.\" The two immortals laughed and said: \"This is a mystery that cannot be revealed in advance. When the time comes, do not forget the two of us, and you may leap out of the fiery pit.\" When Shiyin heard this, he did not press further. So he smiled and said: \"The mystery cannot be revealed in advance, but you just spoke of a 'stupid creature.' I do not know what it is; perhaps I might see it?\" The monk said: \"If you ask about this thing, there is a destiny of one meeting.\" So saying, he took it out and handed it to Shiyin. Shiyin received it and looked: it was a piece of bright, beautiful jade, with clear writing on it, engraved with the four characters \"Precious Jade of Spiritual Understanding,\" and on the back were several lines of small characters. Just as he was about to look closely, the monk said they had arrived at the Illusionary Realm, and forcibly snatched it from his hand. Together with the Taoist, they went through a large stone archway, on which were written four large characters: \"The Illusory Realm of Great Void.\" On either side was a couplet, which said:"

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-009"
msgid "這士隱正痴想，忽見隔壁葫蘆廟內寄居的一個窮儒-姓賈名化，表字時 飛，別號雨行者走了出來．這賈雨村原系胡州人氏，也是詩書仕宦之族，因 他生于末世，父母祖宗根基已盡，人口衰喪，只剩得他一身一口，在家鄉無 益，因進京求取功名，再整基業．自前歲來此，又淹蹇住了，暫寄廟中安身 ，每日賣字作文為生，故士隱常与他交接．當下雨村見了士隱，忙施禮陪笑 道：“老先生倚門佇望，敢是街市上有甚新聞否？\"士隱笑道：“非也．适 因小女啼哭，引他出來作耍，正是無聊之甚，兄來得正妙，請入小齋一談， 彼此皆可消此永晝。”說著，便令人送女儿進去，自与雨村攜手來至書房中 ．小童獻茶．方談得三五句話，忽家人飛報：“嚴老爺來拜。”士隱慌的忙 起身謝罪道：“恕誑駕之罪，略坐，弟即來陪。”雨村忙起身亦讓道：“老 先生請便．晚生乃常造之客，稍候何妨。”說著，士隱已出前廳去了．"
msgstr "As Shiyin was lost in foolish thought, he suddenly saw a poor scholar who lodged in the Gourd Temple next door come out. His surname was Jia, his given name Hua, his courtesy name Shifei, and his other name Yucun. This Jia Yucun was originally a native of Huzhou, and also of a family of scholars and officials. Because he was born in a declining age, his parents and ancestors' foundations were exhausted, the family had dwindled, and only he himself remained. Having no prospects in his native place, he went to the capital to seek fame and rebuild the family fortunes. Since coming here the year before, he had again been delayed, and temporarily lodged in the temple. Each day he sold his writing and composed essays for a living, and so Shiyin often associated with him. Now when Yucun saw Shiyin, he hurriedly saluted and smiled: \"Old sir, leaning at the gate and gazing, is there some news in the market?\" Shiyin smiled and said: \"No. Just now my little daughter was crying, and I brought her out to play. I was extremely bored, and your coming is most timely. Please come into my study and talk; we can both pass this long day.\" So saying, he had his daughter sent inside, and hand in hand with Yucun went to the study. A young servant offered tea. They had talked only three or five sentences when a servant came flying to report: \"Old Master Yan has come to call.\" Shiyin, flustered, rose and apologized: \"Forgive my offence of deceiving your visit; sit a while, and I will come to keep you company.\" Yucun also hurriedly rose and said: \"Old sir, please go. I am a frequent visitor; waiting a little is no harm.\" So saying, Shiyin had already gone out to the front hall."

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-010"
msgid "一日，早又中秋佳節．士隱家宴已畢，乃又另具一席于書房，卻自己步 月至廟中來邀雨村．原來雨村自那日見了甄家之婢曾回顧他兩次，自為是個 知己，便時刻放在心上．今又正值中秋，不免對月有怀，因而口占五言一律 云："
msgstr "One day, early on the Mid-Autumn Festival, after the family banquet was over, Shiyin prepared another feast in his study, and himself walked by moonlight to the temple to invite Yucun. It turned out that Yucun, ever since the day he had seen the Zhen family's maid look back at him twice, had considered her a bosom friend, and kept her constantly in his heart. Now it was again the Mid-Autumn Festival, and he could not help feeling moved by the moon, so he recited a five-character regulated verse:"

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-011"
msgid "蟾光如有意，先上玉人樓．雨村吟罷，因又思及平生抱負，苦未逢時， 乃又搔首對天長歎，复高吟一聯曰："
msgstr "\"If the toad light has any feeling, it should first climb the jade maiden's tower.\" After Yucun finished chanting, he again thought of his lifelong ambition and his bitterness at not having met the right time, and scratching his head, he sighed long at the sky, then loudly chanted a couplet:"

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-012"
msgid "可巧這日拄了拐杖掙挫到街前散散心時，忽見那邊來了一個跛足道人， 瘋癲落脫，麻屣鶉衣，口內念著几句言詞，道是："
msgstr "It happened that on this day, leaning on a staff and struggling to the street to distract himself, he suddenly saw coming from that direction a lame Taoist, mad and disheveled, in hemp sandals and a quail-feathered coat, reciting a few words:"

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-013"
msgid "痴心父母古來多，孝順儿孫誰見了？士隱听了，便迎上來道：“你滿口 說些什么？只听見些`好'`了'`好'`了'．那道人笑道：“你若果听見`好'` 了'二字，還算你明白．可知世上万般，好便是了，了便是好．若不了，便 不好，若要好，須是了．我這歌儿，便名《好了歌》\"士隱本是有宿慧的， 一聞此言，心中早已徹悟．因笑道：“且住！待我將你這《好了歌》解注出 來何如？\"道人笑道：“你解，你解。”士隱乃說道："
msgstr "\"Foolish parents have always been many; filial children and grandchildren, who has seen them?\" When Shiyin heard this, he went up to him and said: \"What are you saying all over? I only heard 'good' 'done' 'good' 'done'.\" The Taoist laughed and said: \"If you indeed heard the two words 'good' and 'done', you still count as one who understands. Know that in all things in the world, good is done, and done is good. If not done, then not good; if you want good, you must be done. This song of mine is called the 'Song of Good and Done'.\" Shiyin had always had a natural wisdom, and hearing these words, his heart was already thoroughly awakened. So he smiled and said: \"Wait a moment! Let me make a commentary on your 'Song of Good and Done', how about that?\" The Taoist laughed and said: \"You comment, you comment.\" Then Shiyin said:"

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-014"
msgid "陋室空堂，當年笏滿床，衰草枯楊，曾為歌舞場．蛛絲儿結滿雕梁，綠 紗今又糊在蓬窗上．說什么脂正濃，粉正香，如何兩鬢又成霜？昨日黃土隴 頭送白骨，今宵紅燈帳底臥鴛鴦．金滿箱，銀滿箱，展眼乞丐人皆謗．正歎 他人命不長，那知自己歸來喪！訓有方，保不定日后作強梁．擇膏粱，誰承 望流落在煙花巷！因嫌紗帽小，致使鎖枷杠，昨怜破襖寒，今嫌紫蟒長：亂 烘烘你方唱罷我登場，反認他鄉是故鄉．甚荒唐，到頭來都是為他人作嫁衣 裳！那瘋跛道人听了，拍掌笑道：“解得切，解得切！\"士隱便說一聲\"走罷 ！\"將道人肩上褡褳搶了過來背著，竟不回家，同了瘋道人飄飄而去．當下 烘動街坊，眾人當作一件新聞傳說．封氏聞得此信，哭個死去活來，只得与 父親商議，遣人各處訪尋，那討音信？無奈何，少不得依靠著他父母度日． 幸而身邊還有兩個舊日的丫鬟伏侍，主仆三人，日夜作些針線發賣，幫著父 親用度．那封肅雖然日日抱怨，也無可奈何了．"
msgstr "\"Mean rooms and empty halls—once the court tablets filled the bed; withered grass and dead willows—once a place of song and dance. Spider webs fill the carved beams; green gauze now pastes the thatched window. What of rouge still thick and powder still fragrant? How soon the temples turn to frost! Yesterday on the yellow earth mound they sent off white bones; tonight under the red lamp within the bedchamber lie lovebirds. Gold fills the chest, silver fills the chest—in a blink a beggar, everyone reviles. Just when you sigh that another's life is short, how do you know your own return is death? Though you teach with method, you cannot be sure they will not turn brigand later. You choose the fat and fine to eat, but who would expect to end up in the pleasure quarter! Because you grudge the gauze cap too small, you end up in cangue and chains. Yesterday you pitied the cold of a torn coat; today you complain the purple python robe is too long. In all the hubbub, one finishes singing and another comes on stage; you mistake a foreign land for your native place. How absurd! In the end all is making a wedding dress for someone else!\" When the mad lame Taoist heard this, he clapped his hands and laughed: \"A fitting commentary, a fitting commentary!\" Then Shiyin said, \"Let's go!\" He seized the Taoist's shoulder bag and carried it on his back, and without going home, went off with the mad Taoist, floating away. At once the neighborhood was stirred, and everyone told it as a piece of news. When Mrs. Feng heard this news, she cried herself half dead and then alive, and had no choice but to discuss with her father and send people everywhere to search—but what news did they get? There was nothing to be done, and she had to rely on her parents to get by. Fortunately, she still had two old maidservants to attend her, and the three of them, mistress and servants, sewed and sold needlework day and night to help with her father's expenses. Although Feng Su complained daily, there was nothing he could do."
