```yaml
header:
  namespace: clarion
  clan: legal-terms
  source-language: en-US
  target-language: zh-CN
groups:
- path: definitions
  entries:
  - id: licensee
    source: “Licensee” means the legal entity that enters into this Agreement and
      accepts its terms on behalf of its Authorised Users.
    target: “被许可方”指签署本协议并代表其授权用户接受本协议条款的法律实体。
  - id: authorised-user
    source: “Authorised User” means an employee, contractor or agent of the Licensee
      whom the Licensee authorises to access the Service on its behalf.
    target: “授权用户”指被许可方的员工、承包商或代理人，且经被许可方授权代表其访问服务。
  - id: service-data
    source: “Service Data” means all records, documents and metadata that the Licensee
      or its Authorised Users submit to or store within the Service.
    target: “服务数据”指被许可方或其授权用户提交至服务之内或存储在服务之内的所有记录、文档及元数据。
  - id: service
    source: “Service” means the Ledgerline audit-trail platform described in Schedule
      A, together with any updates that the Operator makes generally available.
    target: “服务”指附件 A 所述的 Ledgerline 审计追踪平台，以及运营方普遍提供的任何更新。
  - id: operator
    source: “Operator” means the company identified in the privacy notice as responsible
      for processing Service Data.
    target: “运营方”指隐私声明中指明的、负责处理服务数据的公司。
- path: grant
  entries:
  - id: grant-license
    source: Subject to the terms of this Agreement, the Operator grants the Licensee
      a non-exclusive, non-transferable, revocable licence to access and use the Service
      solely for its internal business purposes.
    target: 在遵守本协议条款的前提下，运营方授予被许可方一项非排他性、不可转让、可撤销的许可，允许其仅为自身内部业务目的访问和使用服务。
  - id: licensee-shall
    source: The Licensee shall ensure that every Authorised User complies with the
      terms of this Agreement.
    target: 被许可方应确保每一位授权用户均遵守本协议的条款。
  - id: operator-must
    source: The Operator must maintain the confidentiality of Service Data in accordance
      with Section 4.2 of this Agreement.
    target: 运营方必须依照本协议第 4.2 节的规定，对服务数据予以保密。
  - id: licensee-may
    source: The Licensee may reproduce the documentation solely for the purpose of
      training its Authorised Users.
    target: 被许可方可仅为培训其授权用户之目的复制文档。
  - id: termination
    source: Either party may terminate this Agreement on thirty days' written notice
      to the other party.
    target: 任何一方均可向另一方发出三十天书面通知后终止本协议。
- path: restrictions
  entries:
  - id: licensee-may-not
    source: The Licensee may not sublicense, rent or lease the Service to any third
      party.
    target: 被许可方不得向任何第三方再许可、出租或出借服务。
  - id: restricted-acts
    source: 'The Licensee may not: (a) reverse engineer, decompile or disassemble
      the Service; (b) remove or obscure any proprietary notice from the Service;
      or (c) use the Service to process data on behalf of any third party.'
    target: '被许可方不得：(a) 对服务进行反向工程、反编译或反汇编；(b) 移除或遮盖服务上的任何所有权声明；或 (c) 使用服务代表任何第三方处理数据。'
  - id: no-derivative
    source: The Licensee may not create derivative works based on the Service or any
      part of it.
    target: 被许可方不得基于服务或其任何部分创作衍生作品。
  - id: confidentiality
    source: The Licensee shall keep confidential all non-public information about
      the Service disclosed by the Operator.
    target: 被许可方应对运营方披露的、关于服务的所有非公开信息予以保密。
- path: notices
  entries:
  - id: warranty-disclaimer
    source: THE SERVICE IS PROVIDED “AS IS” AND “AS AVAILABLE”, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF
      ANY KIND, WHETHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE IMPLIED
      WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT.
    target: 服务按“现状”及“现有可用”状态提供，不附带任何形式的保证，无论明示或默示，包括但不限于对适销性、特定用途适用性及不侵权的默示保证。
  - id: limitation-liability
    source: To the maximum extent permitted by law, the aggregate liability of the
      Operator for all claims arising out of or relating to this Agreement shall not
      exceed the fees paid by the Licensee during the twelve months preceding the
      claim.
    target: 在法律允许的最大范围内，运营方因本协议引起或与之相关的所有索赔所承担的累计责任，不超过被许可方在该索赔发生前十二个月内所支付的费用。
  - id: severability
    source: If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable, the remaining
      provisions remain in full force and effect.
    target: 如本协议的任何条款被认定为不可执行，其余条款仍具有完全效力。
  - id: privacy-operator
    source: This Service is operated by {operator}, which acts as the data controller
      for Service Data processed through the platform.
    target: "本服务由 {operator} 运营，其作为通过该平台处理的服务数据的数据控制者。"
  - id: privacy-purpose
    source: The Operator processes Service Data only for the purposes of providing,
      securing and improving the Service.
    target: 运营方仅为提供、保护和改进服务之目的处理服务数据。
  - id: retention-period
    source: Unless a longer period is required by law, Service Data is deleted {months}
      months after the Licensee closes its account.
    target: "除法律要求更长的保存期限外，服务数据在被许可方关闭账户后 {months} 个月即被删除。"
- path: abstract
  entries:
  - id: abstract
    source: Financial audit trails grow by millions of events each day, and the teams
      that review them need detectors that flag genuine anomalies without overwhelming
      human analysts. We evaluate three detection approaches on a corpus of synthetic
      ledger events, measuring false-positive rate, end-to-end latency and processing
      throughput under adversarial noise. Our results show that a sequence model built
      on learned event Embedding improves robustness to noise while keeping latency
      below the interactive threshold. We release the evaluation harness and the synthetic
      corpus to support reproducible comparison.
    target: 财务审计追踪每天新增数百万条事件，审查这些事件的团队需要能够标记出真实异常、同时又不会令人类分析员不堪重负的检测器。我们在一个合成账本事件语料库上评估了三种检测方法，在对抗性噪声下测量假阳性率、端到端延迟和处理吞吐量。结果表明，基于学习到的事件 Embedding 构建的序列模型可提升抗噪声的健壮性，同时将延迟保持在交互式阈值以下。我们发布该评估框架及合成语料库，以支持可复现的比较。
```