header:
  namespace: clarion
  clan: legal-privacy
  source-language: en-US
  target-language: zh-CN
  title: 'Quillmark consent portal: privacy notice, data processing agreement and
    conference abstract'
  info: 'Three original documents that ship together for the Quillmark consent portal:
    the privacy notice an account holder reads, the data processing agreement between
    the Operator, acting as Controller, and the Processor engaged to run the portal,
    and the abstract of a conference paper on consent auditing. Audience: account
    holders, the corporate customers who sign the agreement, and the reviewers of
    an academic workshop. Two strings of the notice are rendered at runtime by the
    portal engine and carry ICU MessageFormat payloads. The clause numbers printed
    in the notice and in the agreement are the numbers that other clauses of this
    file cite.'
  standard: 'Defined terms are fixed for the whole notice and the whole agreement
    and must read the same way in every clause: Personal Data is 个人信息 and never 个人数据,
    Data Subject is 信息主体 and never 数据主体, Controller is 控制者 and never 委托方, Processor
    is 处理者 and never 受托方, Operator is 运营方, Portal is 本门户. Render every modal by its
    legal force and never as a prediction: shall is 应当, must is 必须, may grants a permission,
    may not is 不得, and neither 将 nor 会 may stand in for a duty. Company names such
    as Quillmark Data Services and Halberd Cloud GmbH are registered legal entities
    and stay in Latin script. Keep ICU MessageFormat structure, argument names and
    enumerated item markers such as (a) exactly as the source writes them. Write a
    date in the year-month-day order, group digits the way the source groups them,
    and never round a published figure. Do not imitate the all-capital typography
    of the source; a clause set in capitals carries its force in the wording of the
    sentence. Use one space between Han text and Latin letters or digits, and fullwidth
    punctuation inside Han sentences. Avoid textbook jargon: write 默认 rather than 缺省 and 稳健 rather than 鲁棒. The conference abstract is a separate document and is
    not bound by the defined terms of the notice.'
groups:
- path: policy.definitions
  context: Opening definitions of the Quillmark privacy notice. A capitalised term
    keeps its defined meaning in every later clause of this file, so the wording chosen
    here is the wording the clauses of the notice and of the agreement have to reuse.
  type: sentence
  emotion:
  - objective
  entries:
  - id: def-personal-data
    source: “Personal Data” means any information relating to an identified or identifiable
      natural person that the Operator processes through the Portal.
    target: “个人信息”是指与已识别或可识别的自然人有关的、由运营方通过本门户处理的任何信息。
    status: initial
    context: First defined term of the notice. Later clauses use this term instead
      of describing the data again, and the house term list of this project settles
      which of the two competing renderings is used.
  - id: def-data-subject
    source: “Data Subject” means the natural person to whom the Personal Data relates,
      whether or not that person holds an account with the Operator.
    target: “信息主体”是指个人信息所指向的自然人，无论该自然人是否在运营方处持有账户。
    status: initial
    context: Second defined term. The notice speaks about this person in the third
      person throughout, and the request clauses repeat the term unchanged.
  - id: def-operator
    source: “Operator” means Quillmark Data Services, the company that decides the
      purposes and the means of the Processing described in this notice and that engages
      Halberd Cloud GmbH to host the Portal.
    target: “运营方”是指 Quillmark Data Services，即决定本通知所述处理的目的与方式，并委托 Halberd Cloud GmbH 托管本门户的公司。
    status: initial
    context: Third defined term. Both company names are entries on a commercial register
      and appear the same way in every language edition of this notice, because a
      reader has to be able to look them up.
  - id: def-processing
    source: “Processing” means any operation performed on Personal Data, whether or
      not by automated means, and includes collection, storage, transfer, disclosure
      and erasure.
    target: “处理”是指对个人信息实施的任何操作，无论是否通过自动化方式，包括收集、存储、传输、披露和删除。
    status: initial
    context: Fourth defined term. It is built on the term defined two entries earlier
      in this section, and the clauses of the agreement reuse both terms word for
      word.
  - id: def-portal
    source: “Portal” means the web application through which a request is submitted,
      tracked and answered.
    target: “本门户”是指用于提交、跟踪和答复请求的 Web 应用。
    status: initial
    context: Fifth defined term, describing the product the notice is about.
- path: policy.requests
  context: 'Clauses of the privacy notice that an account holder reads before filing
    a request, together with the two strings the portal itself renders at runtime.
    Numbers printed in this section are legally operative: dates, published figures
    and the clause number that other clauses cite.'
  type: sentence
  emotion:
  - formal
  entries:
  - id: policy-effective-date
    source: This notice takes effect on 1 September 2026 and replaces the notice published
      on 14 June 2024.
    target: 本通知自 2026 年 9 月 1 日起生效，并取代 2024 年 6 月 14 日发布的通知。
    status: initial
    context: Opening line of the notice, printed above the definitions. The first
      date is the day this edition starts to apply and the second identifies the edition
      it replaces, so a reader must be able to tell the two apart at a glance.
  - id: policy-volume-figures
    source: In the 2025 reporting year the Operator received 1,250,000 requests through
      the Portal and answered 98.6% of them within the statutory period.
    target: 在 2025 报告年度，运营方通过本门户收到 1,250,000 件请求，并在法定期限内答复了其中的 98.6%。
    status: initial
    context: Transparency figure published once a year and checked by an external
      auditor. The count and the percentage are reported exactly as they were counted.
  - id: policy-retention-clause
    source: 4.2 The Operator deletes the records of a closed account within 30 days,
      unless a longer retention period is required by law.
    target: 4.2 运营方在账户关闭后 30 天内删除相关记录，但法律要求更长保存期限的除外。
    status: initial
    context: Retention clause as it is printed in the notice, carrying the clause
      number the notice gives it. Other clauses cite this number instead of repeating
      the rule.
  - id: policy-request-right
    source: A Data Subject may ask the Operator to correct or erase the Personal Data
      that the Operator holds about them.
    target: 信息主体可以要求运营方更正或删除运营方所持有的与其有关的个人信息。
    status: initial
    context: Rights clause of the notice. It rests on two terms that the definitions
      section of this file fixes, and a reader who compares the two passages must
      find the same wording in both.
  - id: policy-erasure-crossref
    source: An erasure request is answered under the retention rule in Section 4.2,
      and the Operator confirms the outcome through the Portal.
    target: 删除请求依照第 4.2 节的保存规则处理，运营方通过本门户确认处理结果。
    status: initial
    context: Cross-reference clause. The rule it points at is the retention clause
      printed earlier in this file, and the citation has to lead the reader to that
      clause and to no other.
  - id: portal-request-count
    source: '{pending, plural, one {# request is waiting for an answer} other {# requests
      are waiting for an answer}}'
    target: '{pending, plural, one {# 个请求正在等待答复} other {# 个请求正在等待答复}}'
    emotion:
    - mechanical
    status: initial
    context: Counter on the portal dashboard; the portal engine substitutes the number
      of requests that are still open.
  - id: portal-answer-channel
    source: '{channel, select, email {We answer by email} letter {We answer by letter}
      other {We answer through the Portal}}'
    target: '{channel, select, email {我们通过电子邮件答复} letter {我们通过信函答复} other
      {我们通过本门户答复}}'
    emotion:
    - mechanical
    status: initial
    context: Confirmation shown after a request is filed; the portal engine passes
      the channel the account holder chose.
- path: dpa.authorised
  context: Chapter 6 of the data processing agreement between the Operator, acting
    as Controller, and the Processor engaged to run the Portal. Every clause in this
    chapter grants an authorisation or fixes the condition on which an authorisation
    is given, and the chapter is read as the source of what the Processor is allowed
    to do.
  type: sentence
  emotion:
  - formal
  entries:
  - id: dpa-scope-instructions
    source: The Processor shall process Personal Data only on the documented instructions
      of the Controller, and shall inform the Controller without delay if an instruction
      appears to breach applicable law.
    target: 处理者应当仅依据控制者的书面指示处理个人信息；如果某项指示看似违反适用法律，处理者应当立即通知控制者。
    status: initial
    context: Core duty clause of the agreement. Each obligation is a duty that binds
      the party now, not a forecast of what the parties expect to happen later.
  - id: dpa-audit-right
    source: 6.1 The Controller may audit the Processor once in each calendar year,
      and the Processor must give the auditor access to the records that the audit
      requires.
    target: 6.1 控制者每一日历年可以审计处理者一次，处理者必须让审计人员查阅审计所需的记录。
    status: initial
    context: Numbered audit clause, cited by number from the chapter that follows.
      The first modal confers a right on one party and the second lays a duty on the
      other, and the two halves of the sentence must not read alike.
  - id: clause-07a
    source: The Processor may use the Personal Data for the purposes set out in this
      Article.
    target: 处理者可以为本条所列目的使用个人信息。
    status: initial
    context: The clause closes the list of authorisations in this chapter and tells
      the Processor that the listed purposes are covered by what the Controller has
      granted. It is read as the grant itself, not as a boundary drawn around the
      grant.
  - id: clause-09a
    source: Execution of this Agreement is recorded in the Portal and is confirmed
      to both parties.
    target: 本协议的签署情况记录于本门户，并向双方予以确认。
    status: initial
    context: Opening clause of the authorisation chapter. It fixes the moment at which
      the Controller puts its signature to the agreement in the Portal, which is what
      brings the authorisations of this chapter into force; nothing here concerns
      how the agreement is carried out afterwards.
  - id: dpa-hosting-region
    source: All records created under this Agreement are stored in the region agreed
      in Annex 1 and are backed up every night.
    target: 依本协议创建的所有记录均存储于附件 1 约定的区域内，并且每晚进行备份。
    status: initial
    context: Ordinary operational clause, printed at the end of the authorisation
      chapter.
- path: dpa.restrictions
  context: 'Chapter 7 of the same agreement. Every clause here narrows what the previous
    chapter granted: it states what the Processor is forbidden to do, how its day-to-day
    performance is checked, and what the Operator does not promise. A clause in this
    chapter is read as the outer boundary of the authorisation.'
  type: sentence
  emotion:
  - formal
  entries:
  - id: clause-07b
    source: The Processor may use the Personal Data for the purposes set out in this
      Article.
    target: 处理者可以为本条所列目的使用个人信息。
    status: initial
    context: 'The same sentence as the purpose clause of the previous chapter, repeated
      here as the closing limitation. In this chapter the listed purposes are exhaustive:
      a purpose that is not listed falls outside the authorisation, and the clause
      exists in order to say so.'
  - id: clause-09b
    source: Execution of this Agreement is recorded in the Portal and is confirmed
      to both parties.
    target: 本协议的签署情况记录于本门户，并向双方予以确认。
    status: initial
    context: The same sentence, printed in the chapter that limits the authorisation.
      Here it makes the way the Processor carries out the agreement from day to day
      traceable, so that the Controller can check at any time whether the limits of
      this chapter were observed; the signing of the document is dealt with in the
      earlier chapter.
  - id: dpa-enumerated-prohibition
    source: 'The Processor may not: (a) engage a new sub-processor without the prior
      written authorisation of the Controller; (b) copy the records to a device that
      the Controller has not approved; or (c) use the records to train a model of
      any kind.'
    target: '处理者不得：(a) 未经控制者事先书面授权而聘用新的次级处理者；(b) 将记录复制到控制者未批准的设备上；或 (c) 使用记录训练任何类型的模型。'
    status: initial
    context: Enumerated prohibition. An auditor cites these items by their markers
      in the finding report, so a marker has to stay where the source puts it and
      keep its own item.
  - id: dpa-caps-disclaimer
    source: THE OPERATOR DOES NOT WARRANT THAT THE PORTAL WILL BE AVAILABLE WITHOUT
      INTERRUPTION OR FREE OF ERROR, AND, TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE
      LAW, DISCLAIMS ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
      AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
    target: 运营方不保证本门户可无中断或无错误地使用；在适用法律允许的最大范围内，运营方免除所有默示担保，包括对适销性和特定用途适用性的默示担保。
    status: initial
    context: Disclaimer that closes the chapter. The source is set in capitals because
      the law of the source jurisdiction asks for a conspicuous notice; the target
      locale marks a conspicuous notice in the sentence itself rather than in the
      typography.
  - id: dpa-audit-crossref
    source: Nothing in this Article limits the audit right granted in Section 6.1.
    target: 本条中的任何内容均不限制第 6.1 节所授予的审计权。
    status: initial
    context: Saving clause. It points back to the audit clause of the previous chapter
      by the number that clause carries in this file, and an auditor follows the number
      rather than the wording.
- path: paper.abstract
  context: Abstract of an original conference paper submitted to a workshop on privacy
    engineering. It is an independent document that reports a field study of consent
    portals and does not use the defined terms of the notice. Register is academic
    and the sentences are complete.
  type: description
  emotion:
  - objective
  entries:
  - id: paper-title
    source: 'Auditing Consent Records at Scale: A Field Study of Three Consent Portals'
    target: '大规模同意记录审计：三个同意门户的实地研究'
    type: label
    status: initial
    context: Paper title at the head of the abstract and in the conference programme.
  - id: paper-abstract-opening
    source: Consent records are the evidence a company relies on when a regulator
      asks why a person's data was used, yet the records themselves are rarely audited.
      We report a field study of three consent portals run by mid-sized companies
      over nine months.
    target: 同意记录是监管机构询问某人数据为何被使用时公司所依赖的证据，但这些记录本身却很少受到审计。我们报告了一项为期九个月、针对由中型企业运营的三个同意门户的实地研究。
    status: initial
    context: 'First two sentences of the abstract: the problem and the study.'
  - id: paper-abstract-method
    source: Each portal was exercised with a fixed script of routine requests, and
      every receipt it returned was compared against the entry that the portal had
      written to its own log.
    target: 我们以一套固定的常规请求脚本逐一测试了每个门户，并将它返回的每一份回执与该门户写入自身日志的条目进行比对。
    status: initial
    context: Method sentence of the abstract.
  - id: paper-abstract-findings
    source: Two of the three portals lost the timestamp of at least one withdrawal,
      and none of them could show, without manual work, which version of the notice
      a person had agreed to. We argue that a consent record is worth no more than
      the audit trail behind it, and we publish the test script so that other teams
      can repeat the study.
    target: 三个门户中有两个丢失了至少一次撤回的时间戳，而且没有一个门户能够在无需人工操作的情况下说明某人同意的是通知的哪一版本。我们认为，同意记录的价值不会高于其背后的审计留痕，并公布该测试脚本，以便其他团队重复这项研究。
    status: initial
    context: Findings and closing claim of the abstract.