header:
  namespace: clarion
  clan: legal-privacy
  source-language: en-US
  target-language: zh-CN
groups:
- path: policy.definitions
  entries:
  - id: def-personal-data
    source: “Personal Data” means any information relating to an identified or identifiable
      natural person that the Operator processes through the Portal.
    target: “个人数据”是指运营者通过门户网站处理的、与已识别或可识别的自然人有关的任何信息。
  - id: def-data-subject
    source: “Data Subject” means the natural person to whom the Personal Data relates,
      whether or not that person holds an account with the Operator.
    target: “数据主体”是指个人数据所涉及的自然人，无论该人是否在运营者处拥有账户。
  - id: def-operator
    source: “Operator” means Quillmark Data Services, the company that decides the
      purposes and the means of the Processing described in this notice and that engages
      Halberd Cloud GmbH to host the Portal.
    target: “运营者”是指 Quillmark Data Services，即决定本通知所述处理的目的与方式，并委托 Halberd Cloud GmbH 托管门户网站的公司。
  - id: def-processing
    source: “Processing” means any operation performed on Personal Data, whether or
      not by automated means, and includes collection, storage, transfer, disclosure
      and erasure.
    target: “处理”是指对个人数据实施的任何操作，无论是否通过自动化方式，包括收集、存储、传输、披露和删除。
  - id: def-portal
    source: “Portal” means the web application through which a request is submitted,
      tracked and answered.
    target: “门户网站”是指用于提交、跟踪和答复请求的 Web 应用。
- path: policy.requests
  entries:
  - id: policy-effective-date
    source: This notice takes effect on 1 September 2026 and replaces the notice published
      on 14 June 2024.
    target: 本通知自 2026 年 9 月 1 日起生效，并取代 2024 年 6 月 14 日发布的通知。
  - id: policy-volume-figures
    source: In the 2025 reporting year the Operator received 1,250,000 requests through
      the Portal and answered 98.6% of them within the statutory period.
    target: 在 2025 报告年度，运营者通过门户网站收到了 1,250,000 份请求，并在法定期限内答复了其中的 98.6%。
  - id: policy-retention-clause
    source: 4.2 The Operator deletes the records of a closed account within 30 days,
      unless a longer retention period is required by law.
    target: 4.2 运营者在账户注销后 30 天内删除相关记录，除非法律要求更长的保留期限。
  - id: policy-request-right
    source: A Data Subject may ask the Operator to correct or erase the Personal Data
      that the Operator holds about them.
    target: 数据主体可以要求运营者更正或删除运营者持有的与其有关的个人数据。
  - id: policy-erasure-crossref
    source: An erasure request is answered under the retention rule in Section 4.2,
      and the Operator confirms the outcome through the Portal.
    target: 删除请求依据第 4.2 条中的保留规则予以答复，运营者通过门户网站确认处理结果。
  - id: portal-request-count
    source: '{pending, plural, one {# request is waiting for an answer} other {# requests
      are waiting for an answer}}'
    target: '{pending, plural, one {# 份请求正在等待答复} other {# 份请求正在等待答复}}'
  - id: portal-answer-channel
    source: '{channel, select, email {We answer by email} letter {We answer by letter}
      other {We answer through the Portal}}'
    target: '{channel, select, email {我们通过电子邮件答复} letter {我们通过信函答复}
      other {我们通过门户网站答复}}'
- path: dpa.authorised
  entries:
  - id: dpa-scope-instructions
    source: The Processor shall process Personal Data only on the documented instructions
      of the Controller, and shall inform the Controller without delay if an instruction
      appears to breach applicable law.
    target: 处理者仅应按照控制者书面记录的指示处理个人数据；若某项指示看似违反适用法律，处理者应毫不迟延地通知控制者。
  - id: dpa-audit-right
    source: 6.1 The Controller may audit the Processor once in each calendar year,
      and the Processor must give the auditor access to the records that the audit
      requires.
    target: 6.1 控制者可在每个日历年度内对处理者进行一次审计，处理者必须为审计人员提供审计所需记录的访问权限。
  - id: clause-07a
    source: The Processor may use the Personal Data for the purposes set out in this
      Article.
    target: 处理者可将个人数据用于本条规定的目的。
  - id: clause-09a
    source: Execution of this Agreement is recorded in the Portal and is confirmed
      to both parties.
    target: 本协议的签署记录于门户网站，并向双方确认。
  - id: dpa-hosting-region
    source: All records created under this Agreement are stored in the region agreed
      in Annex 1 and are backed up every night.
    target: 本协议项下创建的所有记录均存储在附件 1 中约定的区域内，并且每晚进行备份。
- path: dpa.restrictions
  entries:
  - id: clause-07b
    source: The Processor may use the Personal Data for the purposes set out in this
      Article.
    target: 处理者可将个人数据用于本条规定的目的。
  - id: clause-09b
    source: Execution of this Agreement is recorded in the Portal and is confirmed
      to both parties.
    target: 本协议的签署记录于门户网站，并向双方确认。
  - id: dpa-enumerated-prohibition
    source: 'The Processor may not: (a) engage a new sub-processor without the prior
      written authorisation of the Controller; (b) copy the records to a device that
      the Controller has not approved; or (c) use the records to train a model of
      any kind.'
    target: '处理者不得：(a) 未经控制者事先书面授权而启用新的次级处理者；(b) 将记录复制到控制者未批准的设备上；或 (c) 使用记录训练任何类型的模型。'
  - id: dpa-caps-disclaimer
    source: THE OPERATOR DOES NOT WARRANT THAT THE PORTAL WILL BE AVAILABLE WITHOUT
      INTERRUPTION OR FREE OF ERROR, AND, TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE
      LAW, DISCLAIMS ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
      AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
    target: 运营者不保证门户网站不中断运行或无错误；并且在适用法律允许的最大范围内，否认所有默示保证，包括对可销售性和特定用途适用性的默示保证。
  - id: dpa-audit-crossref
    source: Nothing in this Article limits the audit right granted in Section 6.1.
    target: 本条中的任何内容均不限制第 6.1 条授予的审计权。
- path: paper.abstract
  entries:
  - id: paper-title
    source: 'Auditing Consent Records at Scale: A Field Study of Three Consent Portals'
    target: '大规模审计同意记录：三个同意门户网站的实地研究'
  - id: paper-abstract-opening
    source: Consent records are the evidence a company relies on when a regulator
      asks why a person's data was used, yet the records themselves are rarely audited.
      We report a field study of three consent portals run by mid-sized companies
      over nine months.
    target: 当监管机构询问某人的数据为何被使用时，同意记录是公司所依赖的证据，然而这些记录本身却很少受到审计。我们报告了一项为期九个月、针对三家中型公司运营的同意门户网站开展的实地研究。
  - id: paper-abstract-method
    source: Each portal was exercised with a fixed script of routine requests, and
      every receipt it returned was compared against the entry that the portal had
      written to its own log.
    target: 我们使用一套固定的常规请求脚本对每个门户网站进行了测试，并将它返回的每一份回执与门户网站在其自身日志中写入的条目进行比对。
  - id: paper-abstract-findings
    source: Two of the three portals lost the timestamp of at least one withdrawal,
      and none of them could show, without manual work, which version of the notice
      a person had agreed to. We argue that a consent record is worth no more than
      the audit trail behind it, and we publish the test script so that other teams
      can repeat the study.
    target: 三个门户网站中有两个丢失了至少一次撤回的时间戳，而且没有一个能在无需人工操作的情况下显示某人同意的是哪个版本的通知。我们认为，同意记录的价值不会超过其背后的审计追踪，并且我们公开了测试脚本，以便其他团队能够重复这项研究。