msgid ""
msgstr ""
"Language: zh-CN\n"
"Content-Type: text/plain; charset=UTF-8\n"

msgctxt "narration.narration-open"
msgid "The town had kept its old manners longer than it kept its money. At the end of every workday Maren walked the harbour road the way a clock walks its dial, and each evening the last thing she heard before the dark came down was the tin wind-bell over the chandler's door, telling the street that the tide had turned and that the world, for a little while, would go on without her. She did not hurry. The salt worked its way into everything she owned, and she had stopped minding it years ago."
msgstr "这座小镇守着旧日礼数的年头，比它留住钱财的年头更久。每个工作日结束，Maren 都沿着海港路走，像时钟沿着表盘走；每天傍晚，在黑暗降临之前，她听到的最后一样东西，是船具店门上的铁皮风铃，它告诉街上的人，潮水已经转向，而这个世界会有一小会儿不带上她继续前行。她不着急。盐分渗进她拥有的每一样东西，而许多年前，她就已经不再在意了。"

msgctxt "narration.narration-memory"
msgid "Of all the things the town let slip into the sea, the sound of that bell was the one thing it kept onshore. Men forgot their own birthdays and the names of ships they had crewed, but every one of them could tell you what the wind was doing the last time the bell rang plain."
msgstr "小镇任无数东西滑入海中，唯独那铃声，是它留在岸上的唯一一样。男人们会忘记自己的生日，也会忘记自己曾服役的船叫什么名字，可他们每个人都说得上来，那铃最后一次响得清亮时，风在做什么。"

msgctxt "dialogue.dialogue-wall"
msgid "\"Wind's back,\" said Sol. \"Didn't figure you'd be out.\" \"I couldn't sleep,\" Maren said. \"The bell again?\" \"The bell.\" Sol folded his arms. \"Folks round here reckon a wind-bell don't ring for the wind. It rings for what the wind forgot.\" \"That's the whole of it,\" Maren said. \"You sleep any better for knowing?\" \"I know the letter F in better, and that's the whole of it,\" said Sol."
msgstr "“风又回来了，”Sol 说。“没想到你会出来。”“我睡不着，”Maren 说。“又是那铃？”“那铃。”Sol 抱起双臂。“这一带的人觉得，风铃不是为风而响的。它是为风忘掉的东西而响的。”“就是这么回事，”Maren 说。“知道了这个，你能睡得更好吗？”“我只把里面那个字母 F 认得更清楚了，仅此而已，”Sol 说。"

msgctxt "dialogue.dialogue-breakfast"
msgid "\"You'd keep the bell if the sea gave it back,\" Sol said one morning. \"Wouldn't you?\" \"I'd hang it where it hangs now,\" Maren said. \"Then what's all the listening for?\" \"To be sure it's still there.\" Sol shook his head. \"It'll be there after both of us,\" he said, \"and it won't miss us.\" \"I know.\" \"Then you know more than most.\" \"I know the listening, anyway.\" \"That's not the same thing.\" \"It's close enough,\" Maren said. \"It's close enough for me.\""
msgstr "“要是海把铃还回来，你会留着它吧，”一天早上，Sol 说。“对吧？”“我会把它挂回现在挂着的地方，”Maren 说。“那你听来听去又是为了什么？”“为了确认它还在那儿。”Sol 摇了摇头。“等我们俩都不在了，它也还会在那儿，”他说，“而且它不会想念我们。”“我知道。”“那你比大多数人都明白。”“反正，我懂的是听它。”“那不是一回事。”“差不多就够了，”Maren 说。“对我来说，差不多就够了。”"

msgctxt "monologue.monologue-tide"
msgid "I never knew whether the bell was a comfort or a reproach. It rang in the same key as my mother's name, the way the tide writes the same line on the sand and then rubs it out. I wanted to keep the sound, the way a child keeps a stone, but a sound has no pocket to be kept in, and so I keep it in my chest and pretend it does not weigh anything."
msgstr "我一直不知道那铃是安慰，还是责备。它响在与我母亲名字相同的调子上，就像潮水在沙上写下同一条线，又把它擦掉。我想留住那声音，像孩子留住一块石头，可声音没有可供存放的口袋，于是我把它留在胸口，假装它没有半点重量。"

msgctxt "monologue.monologue-stone"
msgid "The stone I kept as a girl is still under the floorboard where I left it, and if the house burned I would not grieve for the stone. But the bell is not kept anywhere; it is only heard, and a heard thing has to be heard again or it was never there at all. I keep going back, then, not to keep the bell, but to keep the hearing of it."
msgstr "我小时候留着的那块石头，还在我当初放它的那块地板下面；就算房子烧了，我也不会为那块石头悲伤。可那铃不存放在任何地方；它只是被听见，而一个被听见的东西，必须再次被听见，否则它根本不曾存在。于是我一次次回去，不是为了留住那铃，而是为了留住听见它的感觉。"

msgctxt "description.description-dusk"
msgid "The harbour light turned the water to hammered brass, and one late gull stood on a piling like a man waiting for a letter. Rain hung offshore in a grey curtain that never quite reached the quay. Somewhere a kettle was coming to the boil, and over it all the tin bell swung in the warm wind and rang a single clear note, as if the evening had been waiting to be struck."
msgstr "海港的灯光把水面染成锤打过的黄铜，一只迟归的海鸥立在木桩上，像个等人来信的男人。雨悬在近海，像一道灰幕，始终没有真正落到码头。某处有只水壶正要烧开，而在这一切之上，铁皮风铃在暖风里摇摆，敲出一声清亮的鸣响，仿佛黄昏一直等着被敲响。"

msgctxt "description.description-lamplighter"
msgid "The lamplighter worked the length of the quay with his long pole, and each lamp he touched woke as if it had only been waiting to be remembered. When he came abreast of the chandler's shop the tin bell caught the lamplight and threw it across the water, and for a moment the whole harbour seemed to hang from that one small, swinging note."
msgstr "点灯人拿着长杆，沿码头一路点过去，他碰到的每一盏灯都亮起来，仿佛一直只等着被记起。当他走到船具店旁边时，铁皮风铃接住灯光，又把它抛向水面；有那么一瞬间，整个海港仿佛都悬在那一声细小、摇摆的鸣响上。"

msgctxt "description.description-rain"
msgid "By the time the last light was lit the wind had swung to the north, and the grey curtain offshore began to move. It crossed the bar slowly, a whole wall of weather leaning toward the town, and the first drops struck the quay one by one, each one a small cold hand laid on the stone. The bell rang on in the dark, and the rain answered it."
msgstr "等到最后一盏灯点亮时，风已经转向北面，近海那道灰幕开始移动。它缓缓越过沙洲，一整堵天气的墙朝镇子倾来，最初的雨点一颗颗打在码头上，每一颗都是一只小小的冷手，按在石头上。铃在黑暗中继续响着，雨应和着它。"

msgctxt "closing.closing-line"
msgid "The tide keeps nothing, and forgets nothing."
msgstr "潮水什么都不留下，也什么都不忘记。"