header:
  namespace: clarion
  clan: lit-modern
  source-language: en-US
  target-language: zh-CN
groups:
- path: narration
  entries:
  - id: narration-open
    source: The town had kept its old manners longer than it kept its money. At the
      end of every workday Maren walked the harbour road the way a clock walks its
      dial, and each evening the last thing she heard before the dark came down was
      the tin wind-bell over the chandler's door, telling the street that the tide
      had turned and that the world, for a little while, would go on without her.
      She did not hurry. The salt worked its way into everything she owned, and she
      had stopped minding it years ago.
    target: 这座小镇守着旧礼数的年头，比它守着钱财的年头更长。每个工作日结束时，玛伦走上海港大道，就像钟表的指针走过自己的表盘；每天傍晚，天黑下来之前她听到的最后一点声响，是杂货铺门楣上那只铁皮风铃，它告诉整条街：潮水已经转向，而这个世界还会在没有她的时候，再往前走上一小会儿。她从不加快脚步。盐渗进了她拥有的每一样东西，而她多年前就不再在意了。
  - id: narration-memory
    source: Of all the things the town let slip into the sea, the sound of that bell
      was the one thing it kept onshore. Men forgot their own birthdays and the names
      of ships they had crewed, but every one of them could tell you what the wind
      was doing the last time the bell rang plain.
    target: 小镇任许多东西滑进海里，唯独那铃的声音被留在了岸上。人们会忘记自己的生日，忘记自己曾在其上做事的船叫什么名字，但每个人都能告诉你，那铃最后一次响得清亮时，风当时是什么模样。
- path: dialogue
  entries:
  - id: dialogue-wall
    source: '"Wind''s back," said Sol. "Didn''t figure you''d be out." "I couldn''t
      sleep," Maren said. "The bell again?" "The bell." Sol folded his arms. "Folks
      round here reckon a wind-bell don''t ring for the wind. It rings for what the
      wind forgot." "That''s the whole of it," Maren said. "You sleep any better for
      knowing?" "I know the letter F in better, and that''s the whole of it," said
      Sol.'
    target: '“风又回来了，”索尔说。“没想到你还会出来。”“我睡不着，”玛伦说。“又是那铃？”“是那铃。”索尔抱起双臂。“这一带的人都觉得，风铃不是为风响的。它是为风忘掉的东西响的。”“就是这么回事，”玛伦说。“知道了这些，你睡得更好吗？”“我只把那其中的字母 F 认得清楚了些，仅此而已，”索尔说。'
  - id: dialogue-breakfast
    source: '"You''d keep the bell if the sea gave it back," Sol said one morning.
      "Wouldn''t you?" "I''d hang it where it hangs now," Maren said. "Then what''s
      all the listening for?" "To be sure it''s still there." Sol shook his head.
      "It''ll be there after both of us," he said, "and it won''t miss us." "I know."
      "Then you know more than most." "I know the listening, anyway." "That''s not
      the same thing." "It''s close enough," Maren said. "It''s close enough for me."'
    target: '“要是海把它还回来，你会留着那铃的，”索尔一天早上说。“你会不会？”“我会把它挂在它现在挂着的地方，”玛伦说。“那你这么听着，是为了什么？”“为了确定它还在那儿。”索尔摇了摇头。“我们两个都没了之后，它还会在那儿，”他说，“它不会想念我们。”“我知道。”“那你比大多数人知道得多。”“反正我知道那份聆听。”“那可不是一回事。”“也差不多了，”玛伦说。“对我来说够近了。”'
- path: monologue
  entries:
  - id: monologue-tide
    source: I never knew whether the bell was a comfort or a reproach. It rang in
      the same key as my mother's name, the way the tide writes the same line on the
      sand and then rubs it out. I wanted to keep the sound, the way a child keeps
      a stone, but a sound has no pocket to be kept in, and so I keep it in my chest
      and pretend it does not weigh anything.
    target: 我从来分不清那铃是安慰还是责备。它响的调子和我母亲的名字是同一个调，就像潮水在沙上写下同一道线，然后又把它抹去。我想留住那声音，像孩子留一块石头那样，可声音没有口袋可放，于是我把它收在胸口，假装它一点也不沉。
  - id: monologue-stone
    source: The stone I kept as a girl is still under the floorboard where I left
      it, and if the house burned I would not grieve for the stone. But the bell is
      not kept anywhere; it is only heard, and a heard thing has to be heard again
      or it was never there at all. I keep going back, then, not to keep the bell,
      but to keep the hearing of it.
    target: 我小时候收着的那块石头，还在地板下我放它的地方；就算房子烧了，我也不会为那块石头伤心。可那铃并不被存放在任何地方；它只是被听见，而一件被听见的东西必须再一次被听见，否则它就从来不曾存在。于是我一次次回到那里，不是为了留住那铃，而是为了留住那份聆听。
- path: description
  entries:
  - id: description-dusk
    source: The harbour light turned the water to hammered brass, and one late gull
      stood on a piling like a man waiting for a letter. Rain hung offshore in a grey
      curtain that never quite reached the quay. Somewhere a kettle was coming to
      the boil, and over it all the tin bell swung in the warm wind and rang a single
      clear note, as if the evening had been waiting to be struck.
    target: 港湾的灯光把水面染成锻打过的黄铜，一只迟归的海鸥立在木桩上，像个等信的人。雨在近海挂成一道灰帘，始终没有真正落到码头上。不知哪里的一只水壶正烧到将沸，而在这一切之上，那只铁皮铃在暖风里摇荡，敲出一个清亮的单音，仿佛整个傍晚一直在等着被敲响。
  - id: description-lamplighter
    source: The lamplighter worked the length of the quay with his long pole, and
      each lamp he touched woke as if it had only been waiting to be remembered. When
      he came abreast of the chandler's shop the tin bell caught the lamplight and
      threw it across the water, and for a moment the whole harbour seemed to hang
      from that one small, swinging note.
    target: 点灯人用他的长杆沿着码头一路点过去，他碰过的每一盏灯都醒了过来，仿佛它们一直在等着被人记起。当他走到与杂货铺并齐时，铁皮铃接住了灯光，把它抛过水面；有那么一刻，整个港湾仿佛都悬在那一个小小的、摇荡的音符上。
  - id: description-rain
    source: By the time the last light was lit the wind had swung to the north, and
      the grey curtain offshore began to move. It crossed the bar slowly, a whole
      wall of weather leaning toward the town, and the first drops struck the quay
      one by one, each one a small cold hand laid on the stone. The bell rang on in
      the dark, and the rain answered it.
    target: 等最后一盏灯点亮时，风已经转向北边，近海那道灰帘开始移动。它缓缓越过沙洲，整整一堵天气的墙朝小镇倾过来，最初的雨点一颗一颗打在码头上，每一颗都像一只搭在石头上的冰冷小手。铃在黑暗中继续响着，雨应和着它。
- path: closing
  entries:
  - id: closing-line
    source: The tide keeps nothing, and forgets nothing.
    target: 潮水什么也不留，什么也不忘。