header:
  namespace: clarion
  clan: lit-modern
  source-language: en-US
  target-language: zh-CN
groups:
- path: narration
  entries:
  - id: narration-open
    source: The town had kept its old manners longer than it kept its money. At the
      end of every workday Maren walked the harbour road the way a clock walks its
      dial, and each evening the last thing she heard before the dark came down was
      the tin wind-bell over the chandler's door, telling the street that the tide
      had turned and that the world, for a little while, would go on without her.
      She did not hurry. The salt worked its way into everything she owned, and she
      had stopped minding it years ago.
    target: 镇子守住旧日礼数的年头，比守住钱财的年头更长。每个工作日结束时，玛伦都沿着港路走，像时钟沿自己的表盘走一样；每天傍晚，天黑下来之前她最后听见的，是杂货铺门上那串白铁风铃，它在告诉这条街：潮水已经转向，而世界，还会在没有她的情形下继续一阵子。她不赶路。盐渗进她拥有的一切，多年前她就不再在意了。
  - id: narration-memory
    source: Of all the things the town let slip into the sea, the sound of that bell
      was the one thing it kept onshore. Men forgot their own birthdays and the names
      of ships they had crewed, but every one of them could tell you what the wind
      was doing the last time the bell rang plain.
    target: 镇子让许多东西滑入海中，但那铃的声音是它留在岸上的唯一一件。男人们会忘记自己的生日，忘记自己待过的船的名字，但他们每个人都能告诉你，那铃最后一次响得清楚时，风在做什么。
- path: dialogue
  entries:
  - id: dialogue-wall
    source: '"Wind''s back," said Sol. "Didn''t figure you''d be out." "I couldn''t
      sleep," Maren said. "The bell again?" "The bell." Sol folded his arms. "Folks
      round here reckon a wind-bell don''t ring for the wind. It rings for what the
      wind forgot." "That''s the whole of it," Maren said. "You sleep any better for
      knowing?" "I know the letter F in better, and that''s the whole of it," said
      Sol.'
    target: '“风又回来了，”索尔说。“没想到你会在外面。”“我睡不着，”玛伦说。“又是那铃？”“那铃。”索尔抱起胳膊。“这周围的人觉得，风铃不是为风响的。它是为风遗忘的东西响的。”“就是这么回事，”玛伦说。“你知道了，就睡得安稳些吗？”“我对 better 里的字母 F 一清二楚，仅此而已，”索尔说。'
  - id: dialogue-breakfast
    source: '"You''d keep the bell if the sea gave it back," Sol said one morning.
      "Wouldn''t you?" "I''d hang it where it hangs now," Maren said. "Then what''s
      all the listening for?" "To be sure it''s still there." Sol shook his head.
      "It''ll be there after both of us," he said, "and it won''t miss us." "I know."
      "Then you know more than most." "I know the listening, anyway." "That''s not
      the same thing." "It''s close enough," Maren said. "It''s close enough for me."'
    target: '“要是海把铃还回来，你会留着它的，”一天早上索尔说。“不是吗？”“我会把它挂在现在挂的地方，”玛伦说。“那你还听个什么？”“为了确定它还在那儿。”索尔摇摇头。“我们俩都不在了，它也会在那儿，”他说，“它不会想念我们。”“我知道。”“那你比大多数人知道得多。”“反正，我懂得听。”“那不是一回事。”“够接近了，”玛伦说。“对我来说够接近了。”'
- path: monologue
  entries:
  - id: monologue-tide
    source: I never knew whether the bell was a comfort or a reproach. It rang in
      the same key as my mother's name, the way the tide writes the same line on the
      sand and then rubs it out. I wanted to keep the sound, the way a child keeps
      a stone, but a sound has no pocket to be kept in, and so I keep it in my chest
      and pretend it does not weigh anything.
    target: 我始终不知道那铃是安慰还是责备。它响起的调子，和我母亲的名字同一个调；就像潮水在沙上写下同一条线，又把它抹去。我想留住那声音，像孩子留住一块石头，可声音没有口袋可装，于是我把它留在胸口，装作它没有重量。
  - id: monologue-stone
    source: The stone I kept as a girl is still under the floorboard where I left
      it, and if the house burned I would not grieve for the stone. But the bell is
      not kept anywhere; it is only heard, and a heard thing has to be heard again
      or it was never there at all. I keep going back, then, not to keep the bell,
      but to keep the hearing of it.
    target: 我小时候留着的那块石头，还在我放它的那块地板下面；就算房子烧了，我也不会为那块石头伤心。但那铃不存放在任何地方；它只是被听见，而被听见的东西必须再被听见，否则它就从未存在过。于是我不断回去，不是为了留住那铃，而是为了留住听见它这件事。
- path: description
  entries:
  - id: description-dusk
    source: The harbour light turned the water to hammered brass, and one late gull
      stood on a piling like a man waiting for a letter. Rain hung offshore in a grey
      curtain that never quite reached the quay. Somewhere a kettle was coming to
      the boil, and over it all the tin bell swung in the warm wind and rang a single
      clear note, as if the evening had been waiting to be struck.
    target: 港口的灯光把水面变成捶打过的黄铜，一只晚归的海鸥立在桩上，像个等信的人。雨悬在近海，像一幅灰幕，始终没有真正够到码头。某处有水壶正要烧开，而在这一切之上，那白铁风铃在暖风里摇晃，敲出一个清亮的音，仿佛傍晚一直在等着被敲响。
  - id: description-lamplighter
    source: The lamplighter worked the length of the quay with his long pole, and
      each lamp he touched woke as if it had only been waiting to be remembered. When
      he came abreast of the chandler's shop the tin bell caught the lamplight and
      threw it across the water, and for a moment the whole harbour seemed to hang
      from that one small, swinging note.
    target: 点灯人拿着长杆，沿着码头一路点过去；他碰到的每一盏灯都醒过来，仿佛一直在等着被记起。当他走到与杂货铺并排时，那白铁风铃接住灯光，把它抛过水面；有那么一瞬间，整个港口仿佛都悬在那一个小小的、摇摆的音符上。
  - id: description-rain
    source: By the time the last light was lit the wind had swung to the north, and
      the grey curtain offshore began to move. It crossed the bar slowly, a whole
      wall of weather leaning toward the town, and the first drops struck the quay
      one by one, each one a small cold hand laid on the stone. The bell rang on in
      the dark, and the rain answered it.
    target: 等最后一盏灯亮起时，风已经转向北边，近海那幅灰幕开始移动。它缓缓越过沙洲，像一整面天气之墙朝镇子倾来；最初的雨点一颗一颗打在码头上，每一颗都是一只冰冷的小手，按在石头上。铃在黑暗里继续响着，雨回应它。
- path: closing
  entries:
  - id: closing-line
    source: The tide keeps nothing, and forgets nothing.
    target: 潮水不留下任何东西，也不忘记任何东西。