msgid ""
msgstr ""
"Language: zh-CN\n"
"Content-Type: text/plain; charset=UTF-8\n"

msgctxt "narration.narration-open"
msgid "The town had kept its old manners longer than it kept its money. At the end of every workday Maren walked the harbour road the way a clock walks its dial, and each evening the last thing she heard before the dark came down was the tin wind-bell over the chandler's door, telling the street that the tide had turned and that the world, for a little while, would go on without her. She did not hurry. The salt worked its way into everything she owned, and she had stopped minding it years ago."
msgstr "这座小镇守住旧日礼数的年头，比守住钱财的年头还长。每个工作日结束，玛伦都会沿着海港路走，像时针走着自己的表盘；每天傍晚，在夜色落下来之前，她最后听见的，是杂货铺门上方那只铁皮风铃，它告诉街道：潮水已经转向，而这个世界，会在一小段时间里，不必有她，也照样往前走。她不着急。盐分钻进她所有东西里头，而她多年前就已经不再在意了。"

msgctxt "narration.narration-memory"
msgid "Of all the things the town let slip into the sea, the sound of that bell was the one thing it kept onshore. Men forgot their own birthdays and the names of ships they had crewed, but every one of them could tell you what the wind was doing the last time the bell rang plain."
msgstr "小镇任许多东西滑进海里，唯有那铃声，是它留在岸上的一样。人们会忘了自己的生日，忘了自己当水手时待过的船叫什么名字，可他们每一个人都能告诉你，那铃最后一次响得清亮时，风在做什么。"

msgctxt "dialogue.dialogue-wall"
msgid "\"Wind's back,\" said Sol. \"Didn't figure you'd be out.\" \"I couldn't sleep,\" Maren said. \"The bell again?\" \"The bell.\" Sol folded his arms. \"Folks round here reckon a wind-bell don't ring for the wind. It rings for what the wind forgot.\" \"That's the whole of it,\" Maren said. \"You sleep any better for knowing?\" \"I know the letter F in better, and that's the whole of it,\" said Sol."
msgstr "“风又回来了，”索尔说。“没想到你还会出来。”“我睡不着，”玛伦说。“又是那铃？”“那铃。”索尔抱起胳膊。“这地方的人都说，风铃不是为风而响的。它是为风忘掉的东西而响。”“就是这么回事，”玛伦说。“知道了这些，你就能睡得安稳些了？”“我不过是更认得‘更好’里那个 F 罢了，就是这么回事，”索尔说。"

msgctxt "dialogue.dialogue-breakfast"
msgid "\"You'd keep the bell if the sea gave it back,\" Sol said one morning. \"Wouldn't you?\" \"I'd hang it where it hangs now,\" Maren said. \"Then what's all the listening for?\" \"To be sure it's still there.\" Sol shook his head. \"It'll be there after both of us,\" he said, \"and it won't miss us.\" \"I know.\" \"Then you know more than most.\" \"I know the listening, anyway.\" \"That's not the same thing.\" \"It's close enough,\" Maren said. \"It's close enough for me.\""
msgstr "“要是海把铃还回来，你会留着它吧，”一天早晨索尔说。“难道不会？”“我会把它挂回现在挂的地方，”玛伦说。“那你听来听去，是为了什么？”“为了确知它还在那儿。”索尔摇了摇头。“我们俩都不在了，它也还会在那儿，”他说，“而且它不会惦记我们。”“我知道。”“那你知道的就比大多数人多了。”“我至少知道那倾听。”“那可不是一回事。”“也差不离了，”玛伦说。“对我来说，差不离就够了。”"

msgctxt "monologue.monologue-tide"
msgid "I never knew whether the bell was a comfort or a reproach. It rang in the same key as my mother's name, the way the tide writes the same line on the sand and then rubs it out. I wanted to keep the sound, the way a child keeps a stone, but a sound has no pocket to be kept in, and so I keep it in my chest and pretend it does not weigh anything."
msgstr "我始终说不清，那铃是安慰，还是责备。它响起的调子，和我母亲的名字是同一个调；就像潮水在沙上写下同一条线，又把它抹去。我想把那声音留下来，像孩子收起一块石头那样，可声音没有口袋可装，于是我把它收在胸口，假装它没有一点儿分量。"

msgctxt "monologue.monologue-stone"
msgid "The stone I kept as a girl is still under the floorboard where I left it, and if the house burned I would not grieve for the stone. But the bell is not kept anywhere; it is only heard, and a heard thing has to be heard again or it was never there at all. I keep going back, then, not to keep the bell, but to keep the hearing of it."
msgstr "我小时候收着的那块石头，还在我当初放它的那块地板下面；就算房子烧了，我也不会为那块石头难过。可那铃不一样，它不被收在任何地方；它只被听见，而一个被听见的东西，必须再被听见一次，否则它就从来不曾存在。所以我一次次回去，不是为了留住那铃，而是为了留住听见它的这件事。"

msgctxt "description.description-dusk"
msgid "The harbour light turned the water to hammered brass, and one late gull stood on a piling like a man waiting for a letter. Rain hung offshore in a grey curtain that never quite reached the quay. Somewhere a kettle was coming to the boil, and over it all the tin bell swung in the warm wind and rang a single clear note, as if the evening had been waiting to be struck."
msgstr "港口灯火把水面照成捶打过的黄铜，一只迟归的海鸥站在木桩上，像个等信的人。雨在近海悬成一道灰幕，始终没有真正够到码头。不知哪里，一只水壶正烧到将沸；而在这一切之上，那只铁皮铃在暖风里摇着，敲出一声清亮的音，仿佛整个黄昏一直在等着被敲响。"

msgctxt "description.description-lamplighter"
msgid "The lamplighter worked the length of the quay with his long pole, and each lamp he touched woke as if it had only been waiting to be remembered. When he came abreast of the chandler's shop the tin bell caught the lamplight and threw it across the water, and for a moment the whole harbour seemed to hang from that one small, swinging note."
msgstr "点灯人拿着长杆，一路点过整条码头；他碰过的每一盏灯都醒过来，仿佛它们一直只是等着被记起。他走到杂货铺正对面时，铁皮铃接住灯光，把它抛过水面，有那么一瞬，整个港口仿佛都悬在那一声小小的、摇摆不定的铃音上。"

msgctxt "description.description-rain"
msgid "By the time the last light was lit the wind had swung to the north, and the grey curtain offshore began to move. It crossed the bar slowly, a whole wall of weather leaning toward the town, and the first drops struck the quay one by one, each one a small cold hand laid on the stone. The bell rang on in the dark, and the rain answered it."
msgstr "等最后一盏灯点亮时，风已转向北面，近海那道灰幕开始移动。它缓缓越过沙洲，整整一堵天气之墙向小镇倾来；最初的雨点一颗一颗落在码头上，每一颗都是一只冰凉的小手，贴在石头上。铃在黑暗里继续响着，雨回应着它。"

msgctxt "closing.closing-line"
msgid "The tide keeps nothing, and forgets nothing."
msgstr "潮水什么也不留下，什么也不忘记。"