msgid ""
msgstr ""
"Language: zh-CN\n"
"Content-Type: text/plain; charset=UTF-8\n"

msgctxt "narration.narration-open"
msgid "The town had kept its old manners longer than it kept its money. At the end of every workday Maren walked the harbour road the way a clock walks its dial, and each evening the last thing she heard before the dark came down was the tin wind-bell over the chandler's door, telling the street that the tide had turned and that the world, for a little while, would go on without her. She did not hurry. The salt worked its way into everything she owned, and she had stopped minding it years ago."
msgstr "小镇把旧日的规矩保留得比钱财还久。每个工作日结束后，玛伦都沿着海港路走，像钟表沿着自己的表盘走；每天傍晚，在夜色落下之前，她最后听见的，是船具杂货铺门上那只铁皮风铃，它告诉整条街，潮水已经转向，而世界还会有一小会儿不带上她继续往前。她不急。盐分渗进她拥有的每一件东西，而她多年前就不再在意了。"

msgctxt "narration.narration-memory"
msgid "Of all the things the town let slip into the sea, the sound of that bell was the one thing it kept onshore. Men forgot their own birthdays and the names of ships they had crewed, but every one of them could tell you what the wind was doing the last time the bell rang plain."
msgstr "在镇子任其滑入海中的所有东西里，那铃声是它留在岸上的唯一一样东西。男人们会忘记自己的生日，也会忘记自己曾在其上当船员的船的名字，但每个人都说得上来，那风铃最后一次清晰地响起时，风在做什么。"

msgctxt "dialogue.dialogue-wall"
msgid "\"Wind's back,\" said Sol. \"Didn't figure you'd be out.\" \"I couldn't sleep,\" Maren said. \"The bell again?\" \"The bell.\" Sol folded his arms. \"Folks round here reckon a wind-bell don't ring for the wind. It rings for what the wind forgot.\" \"That's the whole of it,\" Maren said. \"You sleep any better for knowing?\" \"I know the letter F in better, and that's the whole of it,\" said Sol."
msgstr "“风又回来了，”索尔说。“没想到你会在外面。”“我睡不着，”玛伦说。“又是那铃铛？”“是那铃铛。”索尔抱起双臂。“这一带的人觉得，风铃不是为风而响的。它是为风所遗忘的东西而响的。”“就是这么回事，”玛伦说。“知道了这个，你睡得好些了吗？”“我知道‘better’里的字母 F，也就是这么回事，”索尔说。"

msgctxt "dialogue.dialogue-breakfast"
msgid "\"You'd keep the bell if the sea gave it back,\" Sol said one morning. \"Wouldn't you?\" \"I'd hang it where it hangs now,\" Maren said. \"Then what's all the listening for?\" \"To be sure it's still there.\" Sol shook his head. \"It'll be there after both of us,\" he said, \"and it won't miss us.\" \"I know.\" \"Then you know more than most.\" \"I know the listening, anyway.\" \"That's not the same thing.\" \"It's close enough,\" Maren said. \"It's close enough for me.\""
msgstr "“要是大海把那铃铛还回来，你会留着它吧，”索尔一天早上说，“你会吧？”“我会把它挂回现在挂着的地方，”玛伦说。“那你听来听去，图的是什么？”“图个确定它还在那儿。”索尔摇摇头。“我们俩都不在了，它也还会在那儿，”他说，“而且它不会想念我们。”“我知道。”“那你比大多数人懂得多。”“反正我知道什么是聆听。”“那不是一回事。”“差不多，”玛伦说，“对我来说，差不多就够了。”"

msgctxt "monologue.monologue-tide"
msgid "I never knew whether the bell was a comfort or a reproach. It rang in the same key as my mother's name, the way the tide writes the same line on the sand and then rubs it out. I wanted to keep the sound, the way a child keeps a stone, but a sound has no pocket to be kept in, and so I keep it in my chest and pretend it does not weigh anything."
msgstr "我从不知道那铃铛是一种安慰，还是一种责备。它响起的调子，和我母亲的名字是同一个调；就像潮水在沙上写下同一条线，然后又把它抹去。我想留住那声音，像孩子留一颗石子那样，可声音没有口袋可装，于是我只能把它收在胸口，假装它没有重量。"

msgctxt "monologue.monologue-stone"
msgid "The stone I kept as a girl is still under the floorboard where I left it, and if the house burned I would not grieve for the stone. But the bell is not kept anywhere; it is only heard, and a heard thing has to be heard again or it was never there at all. I keep going back, then, not to keep the bell, but to keep the hearing of it."
msgstr "我小时候留着的那颗石子，还躺在我当初放它的那块地板下；就算房子烧了，我也不会为那颗石子难过。可铃铛不放在任何地方；它只是被听见，而一件被听见的东西，必须再次被听见，否则它根本就不曾存在。于是我一次次回去，不是为了留住铃铛，而是为了留住对它的聆听。"

msgctxt "description.description-dusk"
msgid "The harbour light turned the water to hammered brass, and one late gull stood on a piling like a man waiting for a letter. Rain hung offshore in a grey curtain that never quite reached the quay. Somewhere a kettle was coming to the boil, and over it all the tin bell swung in the warm wind and rang a single clear note, as if the evening had been waiting to be struck."
msgstr "海港的光把水面染成捶打过的黄铜，一只迟归的海鸥立在木桩上，像个等信的人。雨在近海悬成一道灰色的帘子，始终没有真正落到码头上。不知哪里有一只水壶正烧到将沸，而在这一切之上，铁皮风铃在暖风里摇荡，敲出一声清亮的音，仿佛傍晚一直在等着被敲响。"

msgctxt "description.description-lamplighter"
msgid "The lamplighter worked the length of the quay with his long pole, and each lamp he touched woke as if it had only been waiting to be remembered. When he came abreast of the chandler's shop the tin bell caught the lamplight and threw it across the water, and for a moment the whole harbour seemed to hang from that one small, swinging note."
msgstr "点灯人拿着长杆，沿着码头一路点过去；他碰到的每一盏灯都醒了过来，仿佛它们一直只是在等着被记起。当他走到船具杂货铺旁边时，铁皮风铃接住灯光，把它抛向水面；有那么一瞬，整个海港仿佛都悬在那一声细小而摇摆的鸣响上。"

msgctxt "description.description-rain"
msgid "By the time the last light was lit the wind had swung to the north, and the grey curtain offshore began to move. It crossed the bar slowly, a whole wall of weather leaning toward the town, and the first drops struck the quay one by one, each one a small cold hand laid on the stone. The bell rang on in the dark, and the rain answered it."
msgstr "等到最后一盏灯点亮时，风已经转向北面，近海那道灰色帘幕开始移动。它缓缓越过沙洲，像一整面天气之墙朝镇子倾来；最初的雨点一颗一颗打在码头上，每一颗都像一只冰冷的小手按在石头上。铃铛在黑暗里继续响着，而雨应和着它。"

msgctxt "closing.closing-line"
msgid "The tide keeps nothing, and forgets nothing."
msgstr "潮水什么都不留下，也什么都不忘记。"