header:
  namespace: clarion
  clan: lit-modern
  source-language: en-US
  target-language: zh-CN
groups:
- path: narration
  entries:
  - id: narration-open
    source: The town had kept its old manners longer than it kept its money. At the
      end of every workday Maren walked the harbour road the way a clock walks its
      dial, and each evening the last thing she heard before the dark came down was
      the tin wind-bell over the chandler's door, telling the street that the tide
      had turned and that the world, for a little while, would go on without her.
      She did not hurry. The salt worked its way into everything she owned, and she
      had stopped minding it years ago.
    target: 小镇保留旧日礼数的年头，比它留住钱财的年头更久。每个工作日结束，玛伦都沿着海港路走，像钟表沿着自己的钟面走一样；每天傍晚，黑暗降临前她听到的最后一样东西，就是船具店门上的那只锡风铃。它告诉街上的人，潮水已经转向，而世界还会在没有她的情况下继续一阵子。她不急不忙。盐分渗进她拥有的一切，而她多年前就不在意了。
  - id: narration-memory
    source: Of all the things the town let slip into the sea, the sound of that bell
      was the one thing it kept onshore. Men forgot their own birthdays and the names
      of ships they had crewed, but every one of them could tell you what the wind
      was doing the last time the bell rang plain.
    target: 小镇任许多东西滑进海里，唯独那铃的声音被留在了岸上。人们会忘记自己的生日，忘记自己当船员时待过的船名，可他们每一个人都能告诉你，那铃最后一次清脆响起时，风是什么样。
- path: dialogue
  entries:
  - id: dialogue-wall
    source: '"Wind''s back," said Sol. "Didn''t figure you''d be out." "I couldn''t
      sleep," Maren said. "The bell again?" "The bell." Sol folded his arms. "Folks
      round here reckon a wind-bell don''t ring for the wind. It rings for what the
      wind forgot." "That''s the whole of it," Maren said. "You sleep any better for
      knowing?" "I know the letter F in better, and that''s the whole of it," said
      Sol.'
    target: “风又回来了，”索尔说。“没想到你会出来。”“我睡不着，”玛伦说。“又是那铃？”“那铃。”索尔抱起胳膊。“这一带的人都说，风铃不是为风响的。它是为风忘记的东西响的。”“就是这么回事，”玛伦说。“知道了，你就能睡得好点？”“我知道 better 里的字母 F，这就是全部了，”索尔说。
  - id: dialogue-breakfast
    source: '"You''d keep the bell if the sea gave it back," Sol said one morning.
      "Wouldn''t you?" "I''d hang it where it hangs now," Maren said. "Then what''s
      all the listening for?" "To be sure it''s still there." Sol shook his head.
      "It''ll be there after both of us," he said, "and it won''t miss us." "I know."
      "Then you know more than most." "I know the listening, anyway." "That''s not
      the same thing." "It''s close enough," Maren said. "It''s close enough for me."'
    target: “要是海把铃还回来，你会留着它吧，”一天早上索尔说。“你会吧？”“我会把它挂回现在挂的地方，”玛伦说。“那你还听个什么？”“好确定它还在那儿。”索尔摇了摇头。“我们俩都不在了，它也会在那儿，”他说，“它不会想念我们。”“我知道。”“那你比大多数人都明白。”“反正我明白的是听。”“那不是一回事。”“够近了，”玛伦说。“对我来说够近了。”
- path: monologue
  entries:
  - id: monologue-tide
    source: I never knew whether the bell was a comfort or a reproach. It rang in
      the same key as my mother's name, the way the tide writes the same line on the
      sand and then rubs it out. I wanted to keep the sound, the way a child keeps
      a stone, but a sound has no pocket to be kept in, and so I keep it in my chest
      and pretend it does not weigh anything.
    target: 我从不知道那铃是安慰还是责备。它响起的调子和我母亲的名字同一个音，就像潮水在沙上写下同一条线，然后又把它抹去。我想留住那声音，像孩子留住一块石头，可声音没有口袋可装，于是我把它留在胸口，假装它没有重量。
  - id: monologue-stone
    source: The stone I kept as a girl is still under the floorboard where I left
      it, and if the house burned I would not grieve for the stone. But the bell is
      not kept anywhere; it is only heard, and a heard thing has to be heard again
      or it was never there at all. I keep going back, then, not to keep the bell,
      but to keep the hearing of it.
    target: 我小时候留的那块石头，还在我当初放它的那块地板下面；就算房子烧了，我也不会为那块石头伤心。可那铃并不存放在任何地方；它只是被听见，而被听见的东西必须再次被听见，否则它根本就不曾存在。于是我一次次回去，不是为了留住那铃，而是为了留住听见它的那一刻。
- path: description
  entries:
  - id: description-dusk
    source: The harbour light turned the water to hammered brass, and one late gull
      stood on a piling like a man waiting for a letter. Rain hung offshore in a grey
      curtain that never quite reached the quay. Somewhere a kettle was coming to
      the boil, and over it all the tin bell swung in the warm wind and rang a single
      clear note, as if the evening had been waiting to be struck.
    target: 海港的灯光把水面变成一片捶打过的黄铜，一只迟归的海鸥立在木桩上，像个等信的人。雨悬在近海，像一道灰色的帘子，始终没有完全落到码头上。某处有水壶正要烧开，而在这一切之上，那只锡铃在暖风里摆动，敲出一声清亮的音，仿佛整个傍晚一直在等着被敲响。
  - id: description-lamplighter
    source: The lamplighter worked the length of the quay with his long pole, and
      each lamp he touched woke as if it had only been waiting to be remembered. When
      he came abreast of the chandler's shop the tin bell caught the lamplight and
      threw it across the water, and for a moment the whole harbour seemed to hang
      from that one small, swinging note.
    target: 点灯人用长杆一路点过码头，每盏被他碰到的灯都像只等着被记起似的醒了过来。当他走到船具店旁边时，锡铃接住灯光，把它抛过水面；有那么一瞬，整个海港仿佛都悬在那一个小小的、摆动的音符上。
  - id: description-rain
    source: By the time the last light was lit the wind had swung to the north, and
      the grey curtain offshore began to move. It crossed the bar slowly, a whole
      wall of weather leaning toward the town, and the first drops struck the quay
      one by one, each one a small cold hand laid on the stone. The bell rang on in
      the dark, and the rain answered it.
    target: 等最后一盏灯亮起时，风已经转向北边，近海那道灰帘开始移动。它缓缓越过沙洲，一整堵天气的墙朝小镇倾来，最初的雨点一颗一颗打在码头上，每一颗都是一只冰冷的小手，按在石头上。铃在黑暗中继续响着，雨应和着它。
- path: closing
  entries:
  - id: closing-line
    source: The tide keeps nothing, and forgets nothing.
    target: 潮水不留下什么，也不忘记什么。