```yaml
header:
  namespace: clarion
  clan: news-wire
  source-language: en-US
  target-language: zh-CN
groups:
- path: wire
  entries:
  - id: headline
    source: 'Harbor bridge: third night closed, tens of thousands rerouted'
    target: '港湾大桥：第三夜封闭，数万人改道'
  - id: subhead
    source: Engineers race the weather to certify the last of 214 cables
    target: 工程师与天气赛跑，为214根缆索中的最后一批做检测认证
  - id: lede
    source: The Meridian Harbor Bridge stayed shut for a third straight night on 14
      March as crews worked through heavy rain to replace three suspension cables
      snapped in last week's storm, forcing tens of thousands of commuters onto two
      temporary ferry shuttles that carry only a fraction of the usual traffic.
    target: 3月14日，子午港大桥连续第三夜封闭。施工人员在暴雨中作业，更换上周风暴中断裂的三根悬索，数万名通勤者被迫改乘两艘临时摆渡渡轮，而它们的运力只是平日交通量的一小部分。
  - id: body-1
    source: Meridian Harbor Authority officials said on Tuesday that reopening depends
      on a full safety review, and that 78% of the bridge's 214 suspension cables
      have passed inspection while the rest are still being tensioned and measured.
      The authority has already pushed back three earlier reopening estimates, and
      its director, Corin Ashwell, warned that any wind above 40 kilometres per hour
      would halt the crane work and push the schedule back again.
    target: 子午港务局官员周二表示，大桥能否重新开放取决于一次全面的安全审查；大桥214根悬索中已有78%通过检测，其余仍在进行张力调整和测量。该局此前已三次推迟重新开放的时间预估，局长科林·阿什韦尔警告说，只要风速超过每小时40公里，吊装作业就会停止，工期也将再次推迟。
  - id: body-2
    source: The closure has rippled across the city's road network. Detour signs push
      drivers onto a single ring road that is already carrying double its design load,
      and tailbacks at peak hour now stretch for more than 12 kilometres along the
      north bank. Ferry staff added two extra crossings after 6 a.m., but queues at
      the east pier still wrapped around the block by mid-morning, with some commuters
      reporting waits of over an hour just to reach the ticket hall.
    target: 封桥的影响已波及全市路网。绕行标志把司机引向唯一一条环路，而这条环路目前的荷载已是设计承载量的两倍；高峰时段的车辆长龙沿北岸绵延超过12公里。渡轮工作人员在早上6点后加开了两班，但到上午过半，东码头的队伍仍绕着街区排了一圈，有通勤者说光是排到售票大厅就等了一个多小时。
  - id: quote
    source: Meridian Harbor Authority director Corin Ashwell told reporters the bridge
      would reopen “only once every cable passes inspection — not a minute earlier.”
    target: 子午港务局局长科林·阿什韦尔对记者说，大桥“只有在每一根缆索都通过检测之后才会重新开放——一分钟都不会提前。”
  - id: photo-caption
    source: Commuters queue for the ferry shuttle at the harbor's east pier on the
      third morning of the closure.
    target: 封桥第三天上午，通勤者在港口东码头排队等候摆渡渡轮。
  - id: news-alert
    source: 'Bridge closure: expect delays of up to 90 minutes on all harbor crossings.'
    target: '大桥封闭：所有港湾过江通道预计延误最长90分钟。'
- path: feature
  entries:
  - id: feature-headline
    source: The harbor's quiet ferry revival
    target: 港湾渡轮的悄然复兴
  - id: feature-lede
    source: For decades the harbor ferries were a curiosity — a slow, scenic way to
      cross the water that most commuters forgot existed. Three closed nights have
      made them essential.
    target: 几十年来，港湾渡轮不过是个稀罕物——一种缓慢而风景优美的过江方式，大多数通勤者早已忘了它的存在。而三个封闭的夜晚，让它们变得不可或缺。
  - id: feature-body-1
    source: 'The morning boat from the east pier is now the only reason many people
      reach the office before ten. Its crew of three knows the regulars by name and
      by order: the woman with the folding bicycle, the teacher who grades papers
      against the rail, the chef who rides across with a crate of sourdough. What
      began as an emergency measure has quietly become a small community, complete
      with its own running jokes and a captain who narrates the crossing like a tour
      guide.'
    target: '如今，东码头的早班船成了许多人十点前赶到办公室的唯一指望。三名船员叫得出常客的名字，也记得他们上船的先后顺序：带折叠自行车的女士、靠着栏杆批改作业的老师、拎着一箱酸种面包过江的厨师。起初只是应急之举，如今却悄然变成一个小社区，有自己的老梗，还有一位像导游一样一路讲解的船长。'
  - id: feature-body-2
    source: Not everyone is nostalgic. Shopkeepers on the far side say the detour
      has cut their weekday trade by nearly a fifth, and the ferry's single fare of
      2 euros adds up for anyone crossing twice a day. The authority has promised
      a rebate scheme, but the details are still being drafted, and a petition asking
      for a temporary footbridge has gathered eleven thousand signatures in three
      days.
    target: 并非人人都心怀怀念。对岸的店主说，绕行让他们的工作日生意少了近五分之一；而渡轮2欧元的单程票价，对每天往返两次的人来说也是一笔不小的开销。港务局承诺推出补贴方案，但细节仍在起草之中；一份要求搭建临时人行桥的请愿书，三天内已征集到一万一千个签名。
  - id: feature-quote
    source: 'Captain Dea Prowse, at the helm of the morning shuttle, put it plainly:
      “Nobody planned for this. We just showed up and started carrying people.”'
    target: '掌舵早班摆渡船的迪亚·普劳斯船长说得很直白：“没人为此做过规划。我们只是照常出船，然后开始载人。”'
- path: social
  entries:
  - id: post-sarcastic
    source: Oh wonderful. A third evening inching home at walking pace. Truly top-class
      bridge management, folks.
    target: 哦，太棒了。第三个晚上，以步行速度一点点挪回家。真是顶级的桥梁管理啊，各位。
  - id: post-enthusiastic
    source: 'The free shuttle ferry is a lifesaver — smooth sailing and a view to
      boot! #MeridianFerry 🚢'
    target: '免费摆渡渡轮真是救命稻草——航行平稳，还附赠一路美景！#MeridianFerry 🚢'
- path: comments
  entries:
  - id: comment-1
    source: Three days stuck on the wrong side of the water and I'm tearing my hair
      out. Sort it out, city hall.
    target: 困在水这边三天了，我快把头发揪光了。市政厅，赶紧解决吧。
  - id: comment-2
    source: Left for work at 6 a.m., reached the office at 8:50. Someone owes me two
      hours.
    target: 早上6点出门上班，8点50才到办公室。有人欠我两个小时。
  - id: comment-3
    source: My neighbor's already trying to sell his car. Says the bridge can stay
      shut for all he cares.
    target: 我邻居已经在张罗着卖车了。他说桥爱关多久关多久，他无所谓。
- path: editors-note
  entries:
  - id: editors-note
    source: This editor's note accompanies the report because the reopening timeline
      quoted on Tuesday has already changed twice. We will update the figures in this
      article as the authority publishes new information, and we will correct any
      error in them without delay.
    target: 本编者按随这篇报道一同刊出，因为周二引用的重新开放时间表已经两次生变。港务局每发布新信息，我们都会更新本文中的数据；一旦发现数据有误，我们将立即更正。
  - id: editors-note-correction
    source: An earlier version of this article stated that the east pier shuttle ran
      every 30 minutes. It runs every 20 minutes at peak hours.
    target: 本文早前版本称东码头摆渡船每30分钟一班。实际上，高峰时段为每20分钟一班。
  - id: editors-note-signoff
    source: — The Editors
    target: ——编辑部
```