msgid ""
msgstr ""
"Language: zh-CN\n"
"Content-Type: text/plain; charset=UTF-8\n"

msgctxt "wire.headline"
msgid "Harbor bridge: third night closed, tens of thousands rerouted"
msgstr "子午港大桥：连续第三晚封闭，数万人改道"

msgctxt "wire.subhead"
msgid "Engineers race the weather to certify the last of 214 cables"
msgstr "工程师与天气赛跑，验收 214 根悬索中的最后几根"

msgctxt "wire.lede"
msgid "The Meridian Harbor Bridge stayed shut for a third straight night on 14 March as crews worked through heavy rain to replace three suspension cables snapped in last week's storm, forcing tens of thousands of commuters onto two temporary ferry shuttles that carry only a fraction of the usual traffic."
msgstr "3 月 14 日，子午港大桥连续第三晚保持封闭，施工人员冒大雨更换上周风暴中绷断的三根悬索，迫使数万名通勤者改乘两艘临时接驳渡轮，而它们的运力只是平时交通量的一小部分。"

msgctxt "wire.body-1"
msgid "Meridian Harbor Authority officials said on Tuesday that reopening depends on a full safety review, and that 78% of the bridge's 214 suspension cables have passed inspection while the rest are still being tensioned and measured. The authority has already pushed back three earlier reopening estimates, and its director, Corin Ashwell, warned that any wind above 40 kilometres per hour would halt the crane work and push the schedule back again."
msgstr "子午港务局官员周二表示，重新开放取决于全面安全审查，大桥 214 根悬索中已有 78% 通过检查，其余仍在进行张拉和测量。港务局此前已三次推迟重新开放的时间估计，局长科林·阿什韦尔警告说，任何超过每小时 40 公里的风都会迫使起重机停工，并再次推迟时间表。"

msgctxt "wire.body-2"
msgid "The closure has rippled across the city's road network. Detour signs push drivers onto a single ring road that is already carrying double its design load, and tailbacks at peak hour now stretch for more than 12 kilometres along the north bank. Ferry staff added two extra crossings after 6 a.m., but queues at the east pier still wrapped around the block by mid-morning, with some commuters reporting waits of over an hour just to reach the ticket hall."
msgstr "封桥的影响已波及全市道路网。绕行标志把司机引上唯一一条环路，而这条环路已经在承受两倍于设计荷载的车流；高峰时段的拥堵车流如今沿着北岸绵延超过 12 公里。渡轮工作人员在早上 6 点后加开了两班，但到上午过半时，东码头的队伍仍绕着街区排开，一些通勤者说，光是为了进售票大厅就等了一个多小时。"

msgctxt "wire.quote"
msgid "Meridian Harbor Authority director Corin Ashwell told reporters the bridge would reopen “only once every cable passes inspection — not a minute earlier.”"
msgstr "子午港务局局长科林·阿什韦尔告诉记者，大桥“只有在每一根悬索都通过检查后才会重新开放——一分钟都不会提前。”"

msgctxt "wire.photo-caption"
msgid "Commuters queue for the ferry shuttle at the harbor's east pier on the third morning of the closure."
msgstr "封桥第三个早晨，通勤者在海港东码头排队等候接驳渡轮。"

msgctxt "wire.news-alert"
msgid "Bridge closure: expect delays of up to 90 minutes on all harbor crossings."
msgstr "大桥封闭：所有过港通道预计最长延误 90 分钟。"

msgctxt "feature.feature-headline"
msgid "The harbor's quiet ferry revival"
msgstr "海港渡轮的悄然复兴"

msgctxt "feature.feature-lede"
msgid "For decades the harbor ferries were a curiosity — a slow, scenic way to cross the water that most commuters forgot existed. Three closed nights have made them essential."
msgstr "几十年来，海港渡轮一直是个稀罕物——一种缓慢而风景优美的渡水方式，大多数通勤者早已忘了它还存在。三个封闭的夜晚让它们变得不可或缺。"

msgctxt "feature.feature-body-1"
msgid "The morning boat from the east pier is now the only reason many people reach the office before ten. Its crew of three knows the regulars by name and by order: the woman with the folding bicycle, the teacher who grades papers against the rail, the chef who rides across with a crate of sourdough. What began as an emergency measure has quietly become a small community, complete with its own running jokes and a captain who narrates the crossing like a tour guide."
msgstr "从东码头开出的早班船，如今是许多人能在十点前到办公室的唯一原因。船上三名船员对常客的名字和登船顺序都了如指掌：那位带着折叠自行车的女士，那位靠着栏杆批改作业的老师，那位带着一箱酸面包乘船过港的厨师。起初只是应急措施，如今悄然变成了一个小社区，有自己的常驻笑料，还有一位像导游一样解说航程的船长。"

msgctxt "feature.feature-body-2"
msgid "Not everyone is nostalgic. Shopkeepers on the far side say the detour has cut their weekday trade by nearly a fifth, and the ferry's single fare of 2 euros adds up for anyone crossing twice a day. The authority has promised a rebate scheme, but the details are still being drafted, and a petition asking for a temporary footbridge has gathered eleven thousand signatures in three days."
msgstr "并非所有人都怀旧。对岸的店主说，绕行让他们工作日的生意减少了近五分之一，而对每天往返两次的人来说，渡轮单次 2 欧元的票价积少成多。港务局承诺推出返款方案，但细节仍在起草，一份要求修建临时人行桥的请愿书三天内已征集到一万一千个签名。"

msgctxt "feature.feature-quote"
msgid "Captain Dea Prowse, at the helm of the morning shuttle, put it plainly: “Nobody planned for this. We just showed up and started carrying people.”"
msgstr "掌舵早班接驳船的船长迪娅·普劳斯说得很直白：“没人计划过这件事。我们只是来了，然后开始载人。”"

msgctxt "social.post-sarcastic"
msgid "Oh wonderful. A third evening inching home at walking pace. Truly top-class bridge management, folks."
msgstr "哦，好极了。第三个傍晚，以步行速度一点点挪回家。真是超一流的桥梁管理啊，各位。"

msgctxt "social.post-enthusiastic"
msgid "The free shuttle ferry is a lifesaver — smooth sailing and a view to boot! #MeridianFerry 🚢"
msgstr "免费接驳渡轮真是救星——航行平稳，还有美景可看！#MeridianFerry 🚢"

msgctxt "comments.comment-1"
msgid "Three days stuck on the wrong side of the water and I'm tearing my hair out. Sort it out, city hall."
msgstr "被困在水另一边三天了，我都要急疯了。市政厅，赶紧解决吧。"

msgctxt "comments.comment-2"
msgid "Left for work at 6 a.m., reached the office at 8:50. Someone owes me two hours."
msgstr "早上 6 点出门上班，8 点 50 才到办公室。有人欠我两个小时。"

msgctxt "comments.comment-3"
msgid "My neighbor's already trying to sell his car. Says the bridge can stay shut for all he cares."
msgstr "我邻居已经在张罗着卖车了。他说大桥爱关多久关多久，他根本不在乎。"

msgctxt "editors-note.editors-note"
msgid "This editor's note accompanies the report because the reopening timeline quoted on Tuesday has already changed twice. We will update the figures in this article as the authority publishes new information, and we will correct any error in them without delay."
msgstr "本编者按随报道一同发布，因为周二引用的重新开放时间表已经两次变动。港务局发布新信息后，我们将更新本文中的数字，并会立即更正其中的任何错误。"

msgctxt "editors-note.editors-note-correction"
msgid "An earlier version of this article stated that the east pier shuttle ran every 30 minutes. It runs every 20 minutes at peak hours."
msgstr "本文早前版本称东码头接驳船每 30 分钟一班。该船在高峰时段每 20 分钟一班。"

msgctxt "editors-note.editors-note-signoff"
msgid "— The Editors"
msgstr "——编辑部"