msgid ""
msgstr ""
"Language: zh-CN\n"
"Content-Type: text/plain; charset=UTF-8\n"

msgctxt "wire.headline"
msgid "Harbor bridge: third night closed, tens of thousands rerouted"
msgstr "港口大桥：连续第三夜封闭，数万人改道绕行"

msgctxt "wire.subhead"
msgid "Engineers race the weather to certify the last of 214 cables"
msgstr "工程师与天气抢时间，为 214 根缆索中的最后几根完成检验认证"

msgctxt "wire.lede"
msgid "The Meridian Harbor Bridge stayed shut for a third straight night on 14 March as crews worked through heavy rain to replace three suspension cables snapped in last week's storm, forcing tens of thousands of commuters onto two temporary ferry shuttles that carry only a fraction of the usual traffic."
msgstr "3 月 14 日，子午港大桥连续第三夜保持封闭。施工人员在暴雨中更换上周风暴中绷断的三根悬索，迫使数万名通勤者改乘两艘临时摆渡渡轮，其运力仅为日常通行量的一小部分。"

msgctxt "wire.body-1"
msgid "Meridian Harbor Authority officials said on Tuesday that reopening depends on a full safety review, and that 78% of the bridge's 214 suspension cables have passed inspection while the rest are still being tensioned and measured. The authority has already pushed back three earlier reopening estimates, and its director, Corin Ashwell, warned that any wind above 40 kilometres per hour would halt the crane work and push the schedule back again."
msgstr "子午港务局官员周二表示，能否重新开放取决于全面的安全审查；大桥 214 根悬索中已有 78% 通过检查，其余仍在进行张拉和测量。港务局此前已三次推迟重开时间的预估，其局长科琳·阿什韦尔警告称，只要风速超过每小时 40 公里，吊装作业就必须停止，工期也会再次延后。"

msgctxt "wire.body-2"
msgid "The closure has rippled across the city's road network. Detour signs push drivers onto a single ring road that is already carrying double its design load, and tailbacks at peak hour now stretch for more than 12 kilometres along the north bank. Ferry staff added two extra crossings after 6 a.m., but queues at the east pier still wrapped around the block by mid-morning, with some commuters reporting waits of over an hour just to reach the ticket hall."
msgstr "此次封闭的波及范围遍及全市路网。绕行标志把车辆引向唯一一条环路，而这条环路的实际荷载已是设计负荷的两倍；高峰时段的车辆排队在北岸绵延超过 12 公里。渡轮工作人员在早上 6 点后加开两班，但到上午过半时，东码头的队伍仍绕着街区排了一圈，有通勤者表示，光是排到售票大厅就等了一个多小时。"

msgctxt "wire.quote"
msgid "Meridian Harbor Authority director Corin Ashwell told reporters the bridge would reopen “only once every cable passes inspection — not a minute earlier.”"
msgstr "子午港务局局长科琳·阿什韦尔对记者表示，大桥“只有在每一根缆索都通过检查后才会重新开放——一分钟都不会提前”。"

msgctxt "wire.photo-caption"
msgid "Commuters queue for the ferry shuttle at the harbor's east pier on the third morning of the closure."
msgstr "封闭的第三天早晨，通勤者在港口东码头排队等候摆渡渡轮。"

msgctxt "wire.news-alert"
msgid "Bridge closure: expect delays of up to 90 minutes on all harbor crossings."
msgstr "大桥封闭：港口各过江通道预计最长延误 90 分钟。"

msgctxt "feature.feature-headline"
msgid "The harbor's quiet ferry revival"
msgstr "港口渡轮的悄然复兴"

msgctxt "feature.feature-lede"
msgid "For decades the harbor ferries were a curiosity — a slow, scenic way to cross the water that most commuters forgot existed. Three closed nights have made them essential."
msgstr "几十年来，港口渡轮不过是个稀罕玩意儿——一种缓慢而风景优美的过江方式，大多数通勤者早已忘了它的存在。而三个封闭的夜晚，让它们变得不可或缺。"

msgctxt "feature.feature-body-1"
msgid "The morning boat from the east pier is now the only reason many people reach the office before ten. Its crew of three knows the regulars by name and by order: the woman with the folding bicycle, the teacher who grades papers against the rail, the chef who rides across with a crate of sourdough. What began as an emergency measure has quietly become a small community, complete with its own running jokes and a captain who narrates the crossing like a tour guide."
msgstr "如今，从东码头开出的早班船，成了许多人能在十点前赶到办公室的唯一指望。船上三名船员叫得出老乘客的名字，也记得他们上船的顺序：推着折叠自行车的女士、倚着栏杆批改作业的老师、提着一箱酸面包过江的厨师。这项最初只是应急之策的安排，已悄然变成一个小社区，有自己的老梗，还有一位像导游一样一路讲解航程的船长。"

msgctxt "feature.feature-body-2"
msgid "Not everyone is nostalgic. Shopkeepers on the far side say the detour has cut their weekday trade by nearly a fifth, and the ferry's single fare of 2 euros adds up for anyone crossing twice a day. The authority has promised a rebate scheme, but the details are still being drafted, and a petition asking for a temporary footbridge has gathered eleven thousand signatures in three days."
msgstr "并非人人都在怀旧。对岸的店主说，绕行让他们的工作日生意少了近五分之一；而渡轮单程 2 欧元的票价，对每天往返两次的人来说也是一笔不小的开销。港务局承诺推出补贴方案，但具体细节仍在起草中；一份要求搭建临时人行桥的请愿书，三天内已征集到一万一千个签名。"

msgctxt "feature.feature-quote"
msgid "Captain Dea Prowse, at the helm of the morning shuttle, put it plainly: “Nobody planned for this. We just showed up and started carrying people.”"
msgstr "掌舵早班摆渡船的迪亚·普劳斯船长说得很直白：“没人为此做过计划。我们只是来了，然后就开始把人送过江。”"

msgctxt "social.post-sarcastic"
msgid "Oh wonderful. A third evening inching home at walking pace. Truly top-class bridge management, folks."
msgstr "哦，太好了。第三个晚上以步行速度一点点往家挪。诸位，这大桥管理真是一流啊。"

msgctxt "social.post-enthusiastic"
msgid "The free shuttle ferry is a lifesaver — smooth sailing and a view to boot! #MeridianFerry 🚢"
msgstr "免费摆渡渡轮简直是救命稻草——航行平稳，还附赠一路风景！#MeridianFerry 🚢"

msgctxt "comments.comment-1"
msgid "Three days stuck on the wrong side of the water and I'm tearing my hair out. Sort it out, city hall."
msgstr "在水这一边困了三天，我快抓狂了。市政厅，赶紧把事儿解决了吧。"

msgctxt "comments.comment-2"
msgid "Left for work at 6 a.m., reached the office at 8:50. Someone owes me two hours."
msgstr "早上 6 点出门上班，8 点 50 才到办公室。有人欠我两个小时。"

msgctxt "comments.comment-3"
msgid "My neighbor's already trying to sell his car. Says the bridge can stay shut for all he cares."
msgstr "我邻居已经在张罗着卖车了。他说大桥关不关，他根本不在乎。"

msgctxt "editors-note.editors-note"
msgid "This editor's note accompanies the report because the reopening timeline quoted on Tuesday has already changed twice. We will update the figures in this article as the authority publishes new information, and we will correct any error in them without delay."
msgstr "本编者按随这篇报道一并刊发，因为周二引述的重开时间表已经变了两次。随着港务局发布新信息，我们会更新本文中的数字；一旦其中有误，我们也会立即更正。"

msgctxt "editors-note.editors-note-correction"
msgid "An earlier version of this article stated that the east pier shuttle ran every 30 minutes. It runs every 20 minutes at peak hours."
msgstr "本文早前版本称东码头摆渡船每 30 分钟一班。实际在高峰时段为每 20 分钟一班。"

msgctxt "editors-note.editors-note-signoff"
msgid "— The Editors"
msgstr "——编辑部"