msgid ""
msgstr ""
"Language: zh-CN\n"
"Content-Type: text/plain; charset=UTF-8\n"

msgctxt "wire.headline"
msgid "Harbor bridge: third night closed, tens of thousands rerouted"
msgstr "港口大桥：连续三夜封闭，数万人改道"

msgctxt "wire.subhead"
msgid "Engineers race the weather to certify the last of 214 cables"
msgstr "工程师与天气赛跑，为214根缆索中的最后几根做认证"

msgctxt "wire.lede"
msgid "The Meridian Harbor Bridge stayed shut for a third straight night on 14 March as crews worked through heavy rain to replace three suspension cables snapped in last week's storm, forcing tens of thousands of commuters onto two temporary ferry shuttles that carry only a fraction of the usual traffic."
msgstr "3月14日，子午线港大桥连续第三夜保持封闭，施工人员在暴雨中更换上周风暴中折断的三根悬索，迫使数万名通勤者改乘两艘临时渡轮摆渡，而它们的运力仅为平日客流的一小部分。"

msgctxt "wire.body-1"
msgid "Meridian Harbor Authority officials said on Tuesday that reopening depends on a full safety review, and that 78% of the bridge's 214 suspension cables have passed inspection while the rest are still being tensioned and measured. The authority has already pushed back three earlier reopening estimates, and its director, Corin Ashwell, warned that any wind above 40 kilometres per hour would halt the crane work and push the schedule back again."
msgstr "子午线港务局官员周二表示，能否重新开放取决于一次全面的安全审查，大桥214根悬索中已有78%通过检查，其余仍在进行张拉和测量。港务局此前已三次推迟重开时间，其局长科林·阿什韦尔警告称，只要风速超过每小时40公里，吊装作业就将暂停，工期也将再次延后。"

msgctxt "wire.body-2"
msgid "The closure has rippled across the city's road network. Detour signs push drivers onto a single ring road that is already carrying double its design load, and tailbacks at peak hour now stretch for more than 12 kilometres along the north bank. Ferry staff added two extra crossings after 6 a.m., but queues at the east pier still wrapped around the block by mid-morning, with some commuters reporting waits of over an hour just to reach the ticket hall."
msgstr "封桥的影响已波及全市路网。绕行标志把司机引上唯一一条环路，而这条路的负荷已经达到设计承载能力的两倍，高峰时段的拥堵车流如今沿着北岸绵延超过12公里。渡轮工作人员在早上6点后加开两班，但到上午过半，东码头的队伍仍绕过了整个街区，有通勤者称光是排到售票大厅就等了一个多小时。"

msgctxt "wire.quote"
msgid "Meridian Harbor Authority director Corin Ashwell told reporters the bridge would reopen “only once every cable passes inspection — not a minute earlier.”"
msgstr "子午线港务局局长科林·阿什韦尔告诉记者，大桥“只有在每一根缆索都通过检查后才会重新开放——一分钟都不会提前。”"

msgctxt "wire.photo-caption"
msgid "Commuters queue for the ferry shuttle at the harbor's east pier on the third morning of the closure."
msgstr "封闭的第三天早晨，通勤者在港口东码头排队等候渡轮摆渡。"

msgctxt "wire.news-alert"
msgid "Bridge closure: expect delays of up to 90 minutes on all harbor crossings."
msgstr "大桥封闭：港口各过江通道预计最长延误90分钟。"

msgctxt "feature.feature-headline"
msgid "The harbor's quiet ferry revival"
msgstr "港口渡轮的悄然复兴"

msgctxt "feature.feature-lede"
msgid "For decades the harbor ferries were a curiosity — a slow, scenic way to cross the water that most commuters forgot existed. Three closed nights have made them essential."
msgstr "几十年来，港口渡轮一直是个稀罕物——一种缓慢而风景优美的过江方式，大多数通勤者都忘了它还存在。而连续三个封闭的夜晚，让它们成了不可或缺的存在。"

msgctxt "feature.feature-body-1"
msgid "The morning boat from the east pier is now the only reason many people reach the office before ten. Its crew of three knows the regulars by name and by order: the woman with the folding bicycle, the teacher who grades papers against the rail, the chef who rides across with a crate of sourdough. What began as an emergency measure has quietly become a small community, complete with its own running jokes and a captain who narrates the crossing like a tour guide."
msgstr "如今，从东码头开出的早班船成了许多人能在十点前赶到办公室的唯一指望。船上三名船员叫得出常客的名字，也说得出他们上船的次序：带着折叠自行车的女士、靠着栏杆批改作业的老师、拎着一箱酸面包过江的厨师。最初只是应急措施，如今已悄然变成一个小社区，有了自己的老梗，还有一位像导游一样讲解航程的船长。"

msgctxt "feature.feature-body-2"
msgid "Not everyone is nostalgic. Shopkeepers on the far side say the detour has cut their weekday trade by nearly a fifth, and the ferry's single fare of 2 euros adds up for anyone crossing twice a day. The authority has promised a rebate scheme, but the details are still being drafted, and a petition asking for a temporary footbridge has gathered eleven thousand signatures in three days."
msgstr "并非所有人都怀旧。对岸的店主说，绕行让他们的工作日生意少了近五分之一，而渡轮单程2欧元的票价，对每天往返两次的人来说也是一笔不小的开销。港务局承诺推出补贴方案，但细节仍在起草中；一份要求搭建临时人行桥的请愿书三天内已征集到一万一千个签名。"

msgctxt "feature.feature-quote"
msgid "Captain Dea Prowse, at the helm of the morning shuttle, put it plainly: “Nobody planned for this. We just showed up and started carrying people.”"
msgstr "掌舵早班摆渡船的迪亚·普劳斯船长说得直白：“没人规划过这件事。我们只是来了，然后开始把人送过去。”"

msgctxt "social.post-sarcastic"
msgid "Oh wonderful. A third evening inching home at walking pace. Truly top-class bridge management, folks."
msgstr "哦，太棒了。第三晚以步行速度慢慢挪回家。真是一流的桥梁管理，各位。"

msgctxt "social.post-enthusiastic"
msgid "The free shuttle ferry is a lifesaver — smooth sailing and a view to boot! #MeridianFerry 🚢"
msgstr "免费摆渡轮真是救星——航行平稳，还能顺便看风景！#子午线渡轮 🚢"

msgctxt "comments.comment-1"
msgid "Three days stuck on the wrong side of the water and I'm tearing my hair out. Sort it out, city hall."
msgstr "困在水这边三天了，我都快抓狂了。市政厅，赶紧解决吧。"

msgctxt "comments.comment-2"
msgid "Left for work at 6 a.m., reached the office at 8:50. Someone owes me two hours."
msgstr "早上6点出门上班，8点50才到办公室。有人欠我两个小时。"

msgctxt "comments.comment-3"
msgid "My neighbor's already trying to sell his car. Says the bridge can stay shut for all he cares."
msgstr "我邻居已经在卖车了。他说大桥爱关多久关多久，他不在乎。"

msgctxt "editors-note.editors-note"
msgid "This editor's note accompanies the report because the reopening timeline quoted on Tuesday has already changed twice. We will update the figures in this article as the authority publishes new information, and we will correct any error in them without delay."
msgstr "本编者按随报道一同发布，因为周二引用的重开时间表已经变了两次。我们将随着港务局发布新信息更新本文中的数据，并会立即更正其中的任何错误。"

msgctxt "editors-note.editors-note-correction"
msgid "An earlier version of this article stated that the east pier shuttle ran every 30 minutes. It runs every 20 minutes at peak hours."
msgstr "本文早前版本称东码头摆渡船每30分钟一班。实际在高峰时段每20分钟一班。"

msgctxt "editors-note.editors-note-signoff"
msgid "— The Editors"
msgstr "——编辑部"