header:
  namespace: clarion
  clan: news-wire
  source-language: en-US
  target-language: zh-CN
groups:
- path: wire
  entries:
  - id: headline
    source: 'Harbor bridge: third night closed, tens of thousands rerouted'
    target: "海港大桥：连续第三夜封闭，数万人改道绕行"
  - id: subhead
    source: Engineers race the weather to certify the last of 214 cables
    target: "工程师与天气赛跑，为 214 根缆索中的最后几根做验收"
  - id: lede
    source: The Meridian Harbor Bridge stayed shut for a third straight night on 14
      March as crews worked through heavy rain to replace three suspension cables
      snapped in last week's storm, forcing tens of thousands of commuters onto two
      temporary ferry shuttles that carry only a fraction of the usual traffic.
    target: "3 月 14 日，梅里迪安海港大桥连续第三晚保持封闭，施工人员在暴雨中更换上周风暴中绷断的三根悬索，数万名通勤者被迫改乘两条临时渡轮接驳线，而它们的运力仅相当于平时交通量的一小部分。"
  - id: body-1
    source: Meridian Harbor Authority officials said on Tuesday that reopening depends
      on a full safety review, and that 78% of the bridge's 214 suspension cables
      have passed inspection while the rest are still being tensioned and measured.
      The authority has already pushed back three earlier reopening estimates, and
      its director, Corin Ashwell, warned that any wind above 40 kilometres per hour
      would halt the crane work and push the schedule back again.
    target: "梅里迪安港务局官员周二表示，大桥能否重新开放取决于全面的安全审查；大桥 214 根悬索中已有 78% 通过检查，其余仍在进行张拉和测量。港务局此前已三次推迟重新开放的预估时间，其局长科林·阿什韦尔警告称，任何超过每小时 40 公里的风速都会导致吊车作业停工，并再次推迟时间表。"
  - id: body-2
    source: The closure has rippled across the city's road network. Detour signs push
      drivers onto a single ring road that is already carrying double its design load,
      and tailbacks at peak hour now stretch for more than 12 kilometres along the
      north bank. Ferry staff added two extra crossings after 6 a.m., but queues at
      the east pier still wrapped around the block by mid-morning, with some commuters
      reporting waits of over an hour just to reach the ticket hall.
    target: "此次封闭已波及全市道路网络。绕行标志将司机引向一条环城公路，而该路已承载着设计负荷两倍的流量，高峰时段的车辆排队如今沿北岸绵延超过 12 公里。渡轮工作人员在早上 6 点后加开两班，但到上午过半时，东码头的队伍仍绕着街区排开，一些通勤者称仅为了到达售票大厅就要等待一个多小时。"
  - id: quote
    source: Meridian Harbor Authority director Corin Ashwell told reporters the bridge
      would reopen “only once every cable passes inspection — not a minute earlier.”
    target: "梅里迪安港务局局长科林·阿什韦尔告诉记者，大桥“只有在每一根缆索都通过检查后才会重新开放——一分钟都不会提前。”"
  - id: photo-caption
    source: Commuters queue for the ferry shuttle at the harbor's east pier on the
      third morning of the closure.
    target: "封闭第三天的早晨，通勤者在海港东码头排队等候渡轮接驳。"
  - id: news-alert
    source: 'Bridge closure: expect delays of up to 90 minutes on all harbor crossings.'
    target: "大桥封闭：所有海港通道预计最多延误 90 分钟。"
- path: feature
  entries:
  - id: feature-headline
    source: The harbor's quiet ferry revival
    target: "海港渡轮的悄然复兴"
  - id: feature-lede
    source: For decades the harbor ferries were a curiosity — a slow, scenic way to
      cross the water that most commuters forgot existed. Three closed nights have
      made them essential.
    target: "几十年来，海港渡轮不过是一桩新奇事——一种缓慢而风景优美的过江方式，大多数通勤者都忘了它们的存在。三个封闭的夜晚却让它们变得不可或缺。"
  - id: feature-body-1
    source: 'The morning boat from the east pier is now the only reason many people
      reach the office before ten. Its crew of three knows the regulars by name and
      by order: the woman with the folding bicycle, the teacher who grades papers
      against the rail, the chef who rides across with a crate of sourdough. What
      began as an emergency measure has quietly become a small community, complete
      with its own running jokes and a captain who narrates the crossing like a tour
      guide.'
    target: "如今，从东码头出发的早班船成了许多人能在十点前到办公室的唯一依靠。船上三名船员对常客的名字和登船顺序都了然于心：那位带折叠自行车的女士、那位靠着栏杆批改作业的教师、那位带着一箱酸面包乘船过江的厨师。最初只是应急措施，如今已悄然变成一个小社区，有自己的老梗，还有一位像导游一样解说航程的船长。"
  - id: feature-body-2
    source: Not everyone is nostalgic. Shopkeepers on the far side say the detour
      has cut their weekday trade by nearly a fifth, and the ferry's single fare of
      2 euros adds up for anyone crossing twice a day. The authority has promised
      a rebate scheme, but the details are still being drafted, and a petition asking
      for a temporary footbridge has gathered eleven thousand signatures in three
      days.
    target: "并非人人都怀旧。对岸的店主说，绕行导致他们工作日的生意减少了近五分之一，而渡轮单程 2 欧元的票价对每天往返两次的人来说也是一笔不小的开支。港务局已承诺推出补贴方案，但细节仍在起草中，而一份要求修建临时人行桥的请愿书在三天内收集到了一万一千个签名。"
  - id: feature-quote
    source: 'Captain Dea Prowse, at the helm of the morning shuttle, put it plainly:
      “Nobody planned for this. We just showed up and started carrying people.”'
    target: "早班接驳船的船长迪亚·普劳斯说得很直白：“没人计划过这件事。我们只是来了，然后就开始载人。”"
- path: social
  entries:
  - id: post-sarcastic
    source: Oh wonderful. A third evening inching home at walking pace. Truly top-class
      bridge management, folks.
    target: "哦，太棒了。第三个傍晚，只能以步行速度一点点挪回家。真是顶级的桥梁管理啊，各位。"
  - id: post-enthusiastic
    source: 'The free shuttle ferry is a lifesaver — smooth sailing and a view to
      boot! #MeridianFerry 🚢'
    target: "免费接驳渡轮真是救命稻草——航行平稳，还能顺便欣赏风景！#MeridianFerry 🚢"
- path: comments
  entries:
  - id: comment-1
    source: Three days stuck on the wrong side of the water and I'm tearing my hair
      out. Sort it out, city hall.
    target: "三天都被困在水另一边，我都快急疯了。市政厅，赶紧解决吧。"
  - id: comment-2
    source: Left for work at 6 a.m., reached the office at 8:50. Someone owes me two
      hours.
    target: "早上 6 点出门上班，8 点 50 分才到办公室。有人欠我两个小时。"
  - id: comment-3
    source: My neighbor's already trying to sell his car. Says the bridge can stay
      shut for all he cares.
    target: "我邻居已经在设法卖掉他的车了。他说大桥关着也无所谓。"
- path: editors-note
  entries:
  - id: editors-note
    source: This editor's note accompanies the report because the reopening timeline
      quoted on Tuesday has already changed twice. We will update the figures in this
      article as the authority publishes new information, and we will correct any
      error in them without delay.
    target: "本编辑附注随报道刊出，是因为周二引用的重新开放时间表已经两次变动。我们将在港务局发布新信息后更新本文中的数据，并会及时更正其中的任何错误。"
  - id: editors-note-correction
    source: An earlier version of this article stated that the east pier shuttle ran
      every 30 minutes. It runs every 20 minutes at peak hours.
    target: "本文早前版本称东码头接驳船每 30 分钟一班。实际上，高峰时段每 20 分钟一班。"
  - id: editors-note-signoff
    source: — The Editors
    target: "——编辑团队"