msgid ""
msgstr ""
"Language: en-US\n"
"Content-Type: text/plain; charset=UTF-8\n"

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-001"
msgid "建寧二年四月望日，帝御溫德殿。方陞座，殿角狂風驟起，只見一條大青蛇，從梁 上飛將下來，蟠於椅上。帝驚倒，左右急救入宮，百官俱奔避。須臾，蛇不見了。忽然 大雷大雨，加以冰雹，落到半夜方止，壞卻房屋無數。建寧四年二月，洛陽地震；又海 水泛溢，沿海居民，盡被大浪捲入海中。光和元年，雌雞化雄。六月朔，黑氣十餘丈， 飛入溫德殿中。秋七月，有虹見於玉堂；五原山岸，盡皆崩裂。種種不祥，非止一端。"
msgstr "On the fifteenth day of the fourth month of the second year of Jian Ning, the Emperor held court in the Wende Hall. Just as he ascended the throne, a violent wind suddenly rose from a corner of the hall, and there appeared a great green serpent that flew down from the beam and coiled upon the throne. The Emperor fell over in terror, and his attendants hurried him into the palace, while all the officials fled in panic. In a moment the serpent vanished. Then suddenly came great thunder and rain, together with hail, which did not cease until midnight and destroyed countless houses. In the second month of the fourth year of Jian Ning, there was an earthquake in Luoyang; and again the sea overflowed, so that the people along the coast were all swept into the sea by the great waves. In the first year of Guang He, hens turned into roosters. On the first day of the sixth month, a black vapor more than ten zhang long flew into the Wende Hall. In the seventh month of autumn, a rainbow appeared over the Jade Hall; and the cliffs of Mount Wuyuan all collapsed and split. Such evil omens were not confined to a single kind."

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-002"
msgid "帝下詔問群臣以災異之由，議郎蔡邕上疏，以為蜺墮雞化，乃婦寺干政之所致，言 頗切直。帝覽奏歎息，因起更衣。曹節在後竊視，悉宣告左右。遂以他事陷邕於罪，放 歸田里。後張讓，趙忠，封諝，段珪，曹節，候覽，蹇碩，程曠，夏惲，郭勝十人朋比 為奸，號為「十常侍」。帝尊信張讓，呼為「阿父」，朝政日非，以致天下人心思亂， 盜賊蜂起。"
msgstr "The Emperor issued an edict asking his ministers the cause of the calamities and portents. Cai Yong, a Gentleman of Consultation, submitted a memorial, holding that the falling of the rainbow and the transformation of the hens were brought about by women and eunuchs meddling in government; his words were rather blunt and outspoken. Reading the memorial, the Emperor sighed, and then rose to change his clothes. Cao Jie, who was behind him, watched him stealthily and told everything to those about him. So they framed Cai Yong on other charges and sent him back to his fields. Later, Zhang Rang, Zhao Zhong, Feng Xu, Duan Gui, Cao Jie, Hou Lan, Jian Shuo, Cheng Kuang, Xia Yun, and Guo Sheng, ten men, banded together in villainy and were known as the \"Ten Regular Attendants.\" The Emperor honored and trusted Zhang Rang, calling him \"Foster Father,\" and the government of the court grew daily worse, until the hearts of the people everywhere inclined to disorder and bandits rose like swarming bees."

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-003"
msgid "時鉅鹿郡有兄弟三人：一名張角，一名張寶，一名張梁。那張角本是個不第秀才。 因入山採藥，遇一老人，碧眼童顏，手執藜杖，喚角至一洞中，以天書三卷授之，曰： 「此名太平要術。汝得之，當代天宣化，普救世人；若萌異心，必獲惡報。」角拜問姓 名。老人曰：「吾乃南華老仙也。」言訖，化陣清風而去。"
msgstr "At that time, in the county of Julu, there were three brothers: one named Zhang Jiao, one named Zhang Bao, and one named Zhang Liang. Zhang Jiao was a xiucai who had failed the examinations. One day, having gone into the hills to gather herbs, he met an old man with blue-green eyes and the face of a boy, who held a staff of wild pear wood. The old man called Jiao into a cave and gave him three volumes of a heavenly book, saying: \"This is called the Essential Art of Great Peace. Having obtained it, you should proclaim the Way of Heaven in its stead and save all the people of the world; but if you harbor disloyal thoughts, you will surely meet with evil retribution.\" Jiao bowed and asked his name. The old man said: \"I am the Old Immortal of Nanhua.\" Having spoken, he turned into a gust of clear wind and was gone."

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-004"
msgid "張角聞知事露，星夜舉兵，自稱天公將軍，─張寶稱地公將軍，張梁稱人公將軍─ 。申言於眾曰：「今漢運將終，大聖人出﹔汝等皆宜順從天意，以槳太平。」四方百姓 ，裹黃巾從張角反者，四五十萬。賊勢浩大，官軍望風而靡。何進奏帝火速降詔，令各 處備禦，討賊立功；一面遣中郎將盧植，皇甫嵩，朱雋，各引精兵，分三路討之。"
msgstr "When Zhang Jiao learned that his affair had been discovered, he raised his troops by night and styled himself General of Heaven—Zhang Bao was called General of Earth, and Zhang Liang General of Man. He proclaimed to the multitude: \"The fortune of Han is now about to end, and a great sage has appeared; you should all obey the will of Heaven and bring about Great Peace.\" The common people in every quarter, wrapping yellow cloths about their heads, followed Zhang Jiao in rebellion to the number of four or five hundred thousand. The rebel host was mighty, and the government troops melted away before them. He Jin memorialized the Emperor to issue an edict at once, ordering every place to prepare its defenses and win merit by suppressing the rebels; and he dispatched the Generals of the Households Lu Zhi, Huangfu Song, and Zhu Jun, each leading picked troops, to attack them along three routes."

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-005"
msgid "且說張角一軍，前犯幽州界分。幽州太守劉焉，乃江夏竟陵人氏，漢魯恭王之後也 ；當時聞得賊兵將至，召校尉鄒靖計議。靖曰：「賊兵眾，我兵寡，明公宜作速招軍應 敵。」劉焉然其說，隨即出榜招募義兵。榜文行到涿縣，乃引出涿縣中一個英雄。"
msgstr "Let us turn now to one of Zhang Jiao's armies, which advanced to attack the borders of Youzhou. The governor of Youzhou, Liu Yan, was a native of Jingling in Jiangxia and a descendant of Prince Gong of Lu of the Han; hearing that the rebels were about to arrive, he summoned the commandant Zou Jing to discuss plans. Zou Jing said: \"The rebels are many and our troops are few; you should lose no time in recruiting soldiers to meet the enemy.\" Liu Yan approved his words and at once issued a proclamation calling for volunteers. When the proclamation reached the county of Zhuo, it brought forth a hero from that very place."

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-006"
msgid "那人不甚好讀書；性寬和，寡言語，喜怒不形於色；素有大志，專好結交天下豪傑 ；生得身長七尺五寸，兩耳垂肩，雙手過膝，目能自顧其耳，面如冠玉，脣若塗脂；中 山靖王劉勝之後，漢景帝閣下玄孫﹔姓劉，名備，字玄德。昔劉勝之子劉貞，漢武時封 涿鹿亭侯，後坐酬金失侯，因此遺這一枝在涿縣。玄德祖劉雄，父劉弘。弘曾舉孝廉， 亦嘗作吏，早喪。玄德幼孤，事母至孝；家貧，販屨織蓆為業。家住本縣樓桑村。其家 之東南，有一大桑樹，高五丈餘，遙望之，童童如車蓋。相者云：「此家必出貴人。」"
msgstr "This man was not fond of reading; he was of a mild and gentle nature, sparing of speech, showing neither joy nor anger on his face; he had always cherished great ambitions and loved above all to make friends with the heroes of the empire. He stood seven chi five cun tall, with ears that hung to his shoulders and hands that reached below his knees; his eyes could turn to look upon his own ears; his face was like polished jade, and his lips as if painted with vermilion. He was a descendant of Liu Sheng, Prince Jing of Zhongshan, and a great-great-grandson of Emperor Jing of the Han. His surname was Liu, his given name Bei, his style Xuande. In former days, Liu Zhen, son of Liu Sheng, was enfeoffed as Marquis of Zhuolu Pavilion in the reign of Emperor Wu of the Han; later he lost his marquisate over the matter of tribute gold, and thus this branch of the family was left in the county of Zhuo. Xuande's grandfather was Liu Xiong, and his father Liu Hong. Liu Hong had once been recommended as filial and incorrupt, and had also served as a petty official, but he died early. Xuande, orphaned in childhood, served his mother with the utmost filial piety; the family was poor, and he made his living by selling straw sandals and weaving mats. His home was in the village of Lousang in that county. To the southeast of his house stood a great mulberry tree, more than five zhang tall, which from a distance looked as lush and rounded as a carriage canopy. A physiognomist said: \"This house will surely produce a man of honor.\""

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-007"
msgid "飛曰：「吾莊後有一桃園，花開正盛；明日當於園中祭告天地，我三人結為兄弟， 協力同心，然後可圖大事。」玄德、雲長、齊聲應曰：「如此甚好。」次日，於桃園中 ，備下烏牛白馬祭禮等項，三人焚香，再拜而說誓曰：「念劉備、關羽、張飛，雖然異 姓，既結為兄弟，則同心協力，救困扶危；上報國家，下安黎庶；不求同年同月同日生 ，但願同年同月同日死。皇天后土，實鑒此心。背義忘恩，天人共戮。」誓畢，拜玄德 為兄，關羽次之，張飛為弟。祭罷天地，復宰牛設酒，聚鄉中勇士，得三百餘人，就桃 園中痛飲一醉。來日收拾軍器，但恨無馬匹可乘。"
msgstr "Fei said: \"Behind my farm there is a peach garden now in full bloom. Tomorrow let us go there and sacrifice to Heaven and Earth, and the three of us will become sworn brothers, of one heart and joined strength; then we may undertake great things.\" Xuande and Yunchang answered together: \"That would be very good.\" The next day, in the peach garden, they prepared a black ox, a white horse, and other offerings for the sacrifice. The three burned incense and bowed twice, speaking their oath: \"We, Liu Bei, Guan Yu, and Zhang Fei, though of different surnames, being now joined as brothers, will with one heart and united strength rescue the distressed and succor the imperiled; above, we will repay our country, and below, bring peace to the common people. We ask not to be born in the same year, month, and day, but only to die in the same year, month, and day. August Heaven and sovereign Earth, be witness to this heart. If we betray righteousness or forget gratitude, may Heaven and man alike put us to death.\" The oath finished, Xuande was honored as the eldest brother, Guan Yu next, and Zhang Fei as the youngest. After the sacrifice to Heaven and Earth, they slaughtered the ox and set out wine, gathering the brave men of the countryside, some three hundred and more, and drank to a drunken revel there in the peach garden. On the morrow they prepared their weapons of war, regretting only that they had no horses to ride."

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-008"
msgid "英雄發穎在今朝，一試矛兮一試刀。初出便將威力展，三分好把姓名標。"
msgstr "The heroes show their mettle on this day: one tries the spear, one tries the sword. At their first sally they display their might; in the Threefold Division their names shall be made known."

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-009"
msgid "次日，玄德與鄒靖，引軍鼓譟而進。賊眾迎戰，玄德引軍便退。賊眾乘勢追趕，方 過山嶺，玄德軍中一齊鳴金，左右兩軍齊出，玄德麾軍回身復殺。三路夾攻，賊眾大潰 。直趕至青州城下，太守龔景亦率民兵出城助戰。賊勢大敗，剿戮極多，遂解青州之圍 。後人有詩讚玄德曰："
msgstr "The next day, Xuande and Zou Jing led their troops forward with beating of drums and shouting. The rebels came out to fight, and Xuande led his troops back in retreat. The rebels pressed their advantage in pursuit; and just as they passed the mountain ridge, the gongs sounded all together in Xuande's army, the two flanking forces emerged at once, and Xuande wheeled his troops about and fell upon them again. Caught between three forces, the rebels were utterly routed. They were chased all the way to the walls of Qingzhou, where the governor Gong Jing also led the militia out of the city to aid in the fight. The rebels were crushingly defeated and a great number slain, and so the siege of Qingzhou was lifted. Later men composed a poem in praise of Xuande, saying:"

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-010"
msgid "運籌決算有神功，二虎還須遜一龍。初出便能垂偉績，自應分鼎在孤窮。"
msgstr "In devising plans and settling calculations his skill was divine; two tigers must still yield to one dragon. At his first sally he left great deeds behind him; well might he come to share the tripod, though alone and poor."

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-011"
msgid "龔景犒軍畢，鄒靖欲回。玄德曰：「近聞中郎將盧植與賊首張角戰於廣宗，備昔曾 師事盧植，欲往助之。」於是鄒靖引軍自回，玄德與關、張引本部五百人投廣宗來。至 盧植軍中，入帳施禮，具道來意。盧植大喜，留在帳前聽調。"
msgstr "When Gong Jing had finished rewarding the troops, Zou Jing wished to return. Xuande said: \"I have lately heard that the General of the Households Lu Zhi is fighting the rebel leader Zhang Jiao at Guangzong. I once studied under Lu Zhi, and I wish to go and aid him.\" So Zou Jing led his troops back by himself, while Xuande, with Guan and Zhang, led their own five hundred men to Guangzong. Arriving at Lu Zhi's camp, they entered the tent and made their salutations, telling him fully why they had come. Lu Zhi was greatly pleased and kept them before his tent awaiting orders."

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-012"
msgid "時張角賊眾十五萬，植兵五萬，相拒於廣宗，未見勝負。植謂玄德曰：「我今圍賊 在此，賊弟張梁，張寶在潁川，與皇甫嵩、朱雋對壘。汝可引本部人馬，我更助汝一千 官軍，前去潁川打探消息，約期剿捕。」玄德領命，引軍星夜投潁川來。時皇甫嵩、朱 雋領軍拒賊，賊戰不利，退入長社，依草結營。嵩與雋計曰：「賊依草結營，當用火攻 之。」遂令軍士，每人束草一把，暗地埋伏。其夜大風忽起。二更以後，一齊縱火，嵩 與雋各引兵攻擊賊寨，火燄張天，賊眾驚慌，馬不及鞍，人不及甲，四散奔走。殺到天 明，張梁、張寶引敗殘軍士，奪路而走。"
msgstr "At that time Zhang Jiao's rebels numbered one hundred and fifty thousand, and Lu Zhi's troops fifty thousand; they faced each other at Guangzong with no decision yet reached. Lu Zhi said to Xuande: \"I am now holding the rebels here. The rebel brothers Zhang Liang and Zhang Bao are at Yingchuan, facing Huangfu Song and Zhu Jun. You may lead your own men, and I will add a thousand government troops, to go to Yingchuan and gather intelligence, and to agree on a time for attacking and capturing them.\" Xuande accepted the order and led his troops by forced marches to Yingchuan. There Huangfu Song and Zhu Jun were leading troops against the rebels; the rebels, meeting with reverses, withdrew into Changshe and made camp amid the grass. Song and Jun consulted together, saying: \"The rebels have camped amid the grass; we should attack them with fire.\" So they ordered the soldiers each to bind a bundle of grass and to lie hidden in ambush. That night a great wind suddenly arose. After the second watch, they set fire all at once, and Song and Jun each led troops in an assault on the rebel camp. The flames reached the sky; the rebels were thrown into panic, unable to saddle their horses or don their armor, and scattered in all directions. The slaughter continued until dawn, when Zhang Liang and Zhang Bao led the remnants of their shattered troops and fought their way out."

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-013"
msgid "忽見一彪軍馬，盡打紅旗，當頭來到，截往去路。為首閃出一將，身長七尺，細眼 長髯；官拜騎都尉；沛國譙郡人也：姓曹，名操，字孟德。操父曹嵩，本姓夏侯氏；因 為中常侍曹騰之養子，故冒姓曹。曹嵩生操，小字阿瞞，一名吉利。操幼時，好游獵， 喜歌舞；有權謀，多機變。操有叔父，見操游蕩無度，嘗怒之，言於曹嵩。嵩責操。操 忽心生一計：見叔父來，詐倒於地，作中風之狀。叔父驚告嵩，嵩急視之，操故無恙。 嵩曰：「叔言汝中風，今己愈乎？」操曰：「兒自來無此病；因失愛於叔父，故見罔耳 。」嵩信其言。後叔父但言操過，嵩並不聽。因此，操得恣意放蕩。"
msgstr "Suddenly a body of troops appeared, all bearing red banners, coming straight toward them and cutting off their road of retreat. From their head flashed out a general seven chi tall, with narrow eyes and a long beard; he held the office of Cavalry Commandant; he was a man of Qiao in the state of Pei: his surname Cao, his given name Cao, his style Mengde. Cao's father, Cao Song, was originally of the Xiahou clan; because he became the adopted son of the Regular Attendant Cao Teng, he took the surname Cao. Cao Song begot Cao, whose childhood name was A-Man, and who was also called Jili. In his youth Cao loved hunting and delighted in song and dance; he was crafty and full of schemes and shifts. Cao had an uncle who, seeing Cao's idle and unrestrained ways, was often angry with him and spoke of it to Cao Song. Song reproved Cao. Cao thereupon hit upon a plan: whenever he saw his uncle coming, he would fall to the ground and feign the symptoms of a stroke. The uncle, alarmed, told Song, who hurried to look at him and found Cao quite well. Song said: \"Your uncle said you had a stroke; are you now recovered?\" Cao replied: \"I have never had such an illness; it is only that I have lost your uncle's affection, and so he deceives you about me.\" Song believed his words. Afterward, whenever the uncle spoke of Cao's faults, Song would not listen. Thus Cao was able to indulge his whims without restraint."

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-014"
msgid "卻說玄德引關、張來潁川，聽得喊殺之聲，又望見火光燭天，急引兵來時，賊已敗 散。玄德見皇甫嵩，朱雋，其道盧植之意。嵩曰：「張梁、張寶勢窮力乏，必投廣宗去 依張角。玄德可即星夜往助。」"
msgstr "Now when Xuande led Guan and Zhang to Yingchuan, hearing the shouts of battle and seeing the firelight lighting up the sky, he hurried his troops forward; but by the time he arrived the rebels had already been routed and scattered. Xuande met Huangfu Song and Zhu Jun and explained Lu Zhi's intention. Song said: \"Zhang Liang and Zhang Bao, their strength exhausted and their power spent, will surely flee to Guangzong to join Zhang Jiao. Xuande, you should go at once by night to aid him.\""

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-015"
msgid "玄德領命，遂引兵復回。到得半路，只見一簇軍馬，護送一輛檻車，車中之囚，乃 盧植也。玄德大驚，滾鞍下馬，問其緣故。植曰：「我圍張角，將次可破；因角用妖術 ，未能即勝。朝廷差黃門左豐前來體探，問我索取賄賂。我答曰：『軍糧尚缺，安有餘 錢奉承天使？』左豐挾恨，回奏朝廷，說我高壘不戰，惰慢軍心；因此朝廷震怒，遣中 郎將董卓來代將我兵，取我回京問罪。」"
msgstr "Xuande accepted the order and led his troops back. Halfway along the road he saw a body of soldiers escorting a prison cart; the prisoner in the cart was Lu Zhi. Xuande was greatly shocked, slipped from his saddle, and asked the reason. Lu Zhi said: \"I was besieging Zhang Jiao and was on the point of breaking him; but because Jiao used sorcery, I could not win at once. The court sent the Yellow Gate official Zuo Feng to inspect, and he demanded a bribe from me. I answered: 'Our military rations are still short; how should I have spare money to present to the Emperor's envoy?' Zuo Feng bore a grudge, and on returning memorialized the court that I had built high ramparts and would not fight, and that I was slackening the spirit of the troops; whereupon the court was enraged and sent the General of the Households Dong Zhuo to take command of my army in my place, and had me taken back to the capital for trial.\""

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-016"
msgid "三人飛馬引軍而出。張角正殺敗董卓，乘勢趕來，忽遇三人衝殺，角軍大亂，敗走 五十餘里。三人救了董卓回寨。卓問三人現居何職。玄德曰：「白身。」卓甚輕之，不 為禮。玄德出，張飛大怒曰：「我等親赴血戰，救了這廝，他卻如此無禮﹔若不殺之， 難消我氣！」便要提刀入帳來殺董卓。正是：人情勢利古猶今，誰識英雄是白身？安得 快人如翼德，盡誅世上負心人！畢竟董卓性命如何，且看下文分解。"
msgstr "The three galloped out with their troops. Zhang Jiao was just then routing Dong Zhuo and pressing his advantage, when suddenly he met the charge of the three; Jiao's army fell into confusion and fled more than fifty li. The three rescued Dong Zhuo and brought him back to camp. Zhuo asked them what offices they held. Xuande said: \"We are commoners.\" Zhuo held them in great contempt and offered them no courtesy. As Xuande went out, Zhang Fei flew into a rage and said: \"We plunged into a bloody battle ourselves and saved this fellow, yet he is so rude; if I do not kill him, my anger will never be appeased!\" And he would have taken up his sword and entered the tent to kill Dong Zhuo. Truly: Men have ever courted power and despised the lowly, as in ancient days so now; who knows a hero when he is but a common man? Would that there were a man like Yide, to slay all the ungrateful in the world! Just what became of Dong Zhuo, let the next chapter tell."

msgctxt "chapter-2.chapter-2-001"
msgid "中平六年，夏四月，靈帝病篤，召大將軍何進入宮，商議後事。那何進起身屠家； 因妹入宮為貴人，生皇子辯，遂立為皇后，進由是得權重任。帝又寵幸王美人，生皇子 協。何后嫉妒，鴆殺王美人。皇子協養於董太后宮中。董太后乃靈帝之母，解瀆亭侯劉 萇之妻也。初因桓帝無子，迎立解瀆亭侯之子，是為靈帝。靈帝入繼大統，遂迎養母氏 於宮中，尊為太后。"
msgstr "In the sixth year of Zhong Ping, in the summer, the fourth month, Emperor Ling fell gravely ill and summoned the Great General He Jin into the palace to discuss affairs after his death. Now He Jin came of a family of butchers; because his sister entered the palace as an Honored Lady and gave birth to the Prince Bian, she was made Empress, and through her He Jin gained power and high office. The Emperor also favored the Lady Wang, who bore the Prince Xie. Empress He, out of jealousy, poisoned the Lady Wang to death. Prince Xie was raised in the palace of the Empress Dowager Dong. The Empress Dowager Dong was the mother of Emperor Ling, and the wife of Liu Chang, Marquis of Jiedu Pavilion. In earlier days, because Emperor Huan had no son, the son of the Marquis of Jiedu Pavilion was brought to the throne and became Emperor Ling. When Emperor Ling succeeded to the great line, he brought his mother into the palace to be cared for and honored her as Empress Dowager."

msgctxt "chapter-2.chapter-2-002"
msgid "何進聽罷，出謂眾官曰：「蹇碩設謀害我，可族滅其家。其餘不必妄加殘害。」袁 紹曰：「若不斬草除根，必為喪身之本。」進曰：「吾意已決，汝勿多言。」眾官皆退 。"
msgstr "When He Jin had heard this out, he went out and said to the assembled officials: \"Jian Shuo plotted to kill me; his whole clan should be exterminated. The rest need not be wantonly slaughtered.\" Yuan Shao said: \"If you do not cut the grass and pull out the roots, it will surely become the ruin of you.\" He Jin said: \"My mind is made up; say no more.\" And all the officials withdrew."

msgctxt "chapter-2.chapter-2-003"
msgid "次日，太后命何進參錄尚書事，其餘皆封官職。董太后宣張讓等入宮商議曰：「何 進之妹，始初我抬舉他。今日他孩兒即皇帝位，內外臣僚，皆其心腹：威權太重，我將 如何？」讓奏曰：「娘娘可臨朝，垂簾聽政；封皇子協為王；加國舅董重大官，掌握軍 權；重用臣等：大事可圖矣。」"
msgstr "The next day, the Empress Dowager ordered He Jin to participate in the affairs of the Imperial Secretariat, and conferred offices on all the others. The Empress Dowager Dong summoned Zhang Rang and the rest into the palace to consult, saying: \"It was I who first raised up He Jin's sister. Now that her child sits on the imperial throne, and all the officials within and without the court are her confidants, her power and authority are too great—what shall I do?\" Zhang Rang replied: \"Your Highness may hold court and hear government from behind a screen; enfeoff the Prince Xie as a prince; give the Empress Dowager's brother Dong Zhong a high office and place the military power in his hands; and employ us in important posts: then great things may be accomplished.\""

msgctxt "chapter-2.chapter-2-004"
msgid "董太后大喜。次日設朝，董太后降旨，封皇子協為陳留王，董重為驃騎將軍，張讓 等共預朝政。何太后見董太后專權，於宮中設一宴，請董太后赴席。酒至半酣，何太后 起身捧盃再拜曰：「我等皆婦人也，參預朝政，非其所宜。昔呂后因握重權，宗族千口 皆被戮。今我等宜深居九重；朝廷大事，任大臣元老自行商議，此國家之幸也。願垂聽 焉。」董太后大怒曰：「汝鴆死王美人，設心嫉妒。今倚汝子為君，與汝兄何進之勢， 輒敢亂言！吾敕驃騎斷汝兄首，如反掌耳！」何后亦怒曰：「吾以好言相勸，何反怒耶 ？」董后曰：「汝家屠沽小輩，有何見識！」"
msgstr "The Empress Dowager Dong was greatly pleased. The next day she held court, and the Empress Dowager Dong issued an edict enfeoffing the Prince Xie as Prince of Chenliu, making Dong Zhong General of Agile Cavalry, and admitting Zhang Rang and his fellows to a share in the government. When the Empress Dowager He saw the Empress Dowager Dong monopolizing power, she gave a banquet in the palace and invited the Empress Dowager Dong to attend. When the wine was half drunk, the Empress Dowager He rose, raised her cup, and bowed twice, saying: \"We are all women, and it is not fitting for us to meddle in the government of the court. In former days, because Empress Lü grasped great power, a thousand members of her clan were all slaughtered. Now we ought to dwell deep within the ninefold palace; let the great ministers and elder statesmen deliberate the affairs of the court among themselves—this would be the fortune of the realm. I beg you to condescend to hear me.\" The Empress Dowager Dong flew into a rage and said: \"You poisoned the Lady Wang to death with jealous intent. Now, relying on your son being emperor and on the power of your brother He Jin, you dare to talk wildly! If I bid the General of Agile Cavalry cut off your brother's head, it would be as easy as turning over my hand!\" The Empress He too grew angry and said: \"I gave you good counsel—why are you angry instead?\" The Empress Dowager Dong said: \"You are a low-born brood of butchers and wine-sellers; what understanding have you?\""

msgctxt "chapter-2.chapter-2-005"
msgid "少頃，何進入白后，欲誅中涓。何后曰：「中官統領禁省，漢家故事。先帝新棄天 下，爾欲誅殺舊臣，非重宗廟也。」進本是沒決斷之人，聽太后言，唯唯而出。袁紹迎 問曰：「大事若何？」進曰：「太后不允，如之奈何？」紹曰：「可召四方英雄人士， 勒兵來京，盡誅閹豎。此時事急，不容太后不從。」進曰：「此計大妙！」便發檄至各 鎮，召赴京師。"
msgstr "A little later, He Jin went in and reported to the Empress; he wished to put the palace eunuchs to death. The Empress He said: \"It has been the practice of the Han house for the palace attendants to oversee the palace precincts. The late Emperor has but newly left the world, and you would slay the old servants—that is not to honor the ancestral temple.\" He Jin was by nature a man of no decision; hearing the Empress Dowager's words, he assented and withdrew. Yuan Shao met him and asked: \"How goes the great matter?\" He Jin said: \"The Empress Dowager will not permit it; what is to be done?\" Shao said: \"You may summon the heroes and men of worth from every quarter to bring their troops to the capital and put all the eunuchs to death. The crisis is now urgent, and the Empress Dowager cannot but comply.\" He Jin said: \"That is a most excellent plan!\" And he sent out proclamations to every garrison, summoning them to the capital."

msgctxt "chapter-2.chapter-2-006"
msgid "主簿陳琳曰：「不可！俗云：『掩目而捕燕雀』，是自欺也。微物尚不可欺以得志 ，況國家大事乎？今將軍仗皇威，掌兵要，龍驤虎步，高下在心：若欲誅宦官，如鼓洪 爐燎毛髮耳。但當速發，行權立斷，則天人順之﹔卻反外檄大臣，臨犯京闕，英雄聚會 ，各懷一心：所謂倒持干戈，授人以柄，功必一成，反生亂矣。」何進笑曰：「此懦夫 之見也！」傍邊一人鼓掌大笑曰：「此事易如反掌，何必多議！」視之，乃曹操也。正 是：欲除君側宵人亂，須聽朝中智士謀。不知曹操說出甚話來，且聽下文分解。"
msgstr "Chen Lin, the Registrar, said: \"You must not! As the saying goes, 'Shutting one's eyes to catch a sparrow'—that is to deceive oneself. A small creature cannot be taken by deceit, let alone the great affairs of state. Now you, General, rely on the imperial majesty and hold the keys of the army; you stride like a dragon and a tiger, and the heights and depths are yours to command. If you wish to put the eunuchs to death, it would be like blowing on a great furnace to singe a hair. You have only to act swiftly, exercise your authority, and decide on the spot, and Heaven and man will approve. But instead you send proclamations abroad to the great ministers, and would have them come threatening the capital; heroes will gather, each with his own mind—this is what is called holding the spear reversed and handing the handle to another. If the deed is done, disorder will arise instead.\" He Jin laughed and said: \"That is the view of a coward!\" A man beside him clapped his hands and laughed aloud, saying: \"This matter is as easy as turning over one's hand—why deliberate so much?\" They looked at him: it was Cao Cao. Truly: To rid the sovereign's side of villainous disorder, one must heed the wise counsel of the court. Just what Cao Cao said, let the next chapter tell."