header:
  namespace: clarion
  clan: sanguo-brewitt-taylor
  source-language: zh-CN
  target-language: en-US
  title: San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original with Brewitt-Taylor's
    1925 translation
  info: This is the opening of the classic Chinese historical novel Romance of the
    Three Kingdoms, covering the first two chapters. The text appears as narrative
    prose with embedded poetry, dialogue, and chapter-end cliffhanger couplets. The
    audience is general English-language readers of classical Chinese literature.
    Translators should note that this is a literary work with archaic language, formal
    narrative conventions, and a large cast of historical figures; consistency in
    names, titles, and epithets across the whole novel is essential.
  standard: Use a formal, literary register appropriate to a classic novel, with slightly
    archaic but readable English. Romanize Chinese names in Wade-Giles as in the 1925
    Brewitt-Taylor translation (e.g., Liu Pei, Kuan Yu, Chang Fei, Ts'ao Ts'ao). Keep
    official titles translated consistently (e.g., Emperor, General, Prefect). Keep
    place names in Wade-Giles romanization. Poetry should be rendered as verse with
    attention to rhyme or meter where feasible. Untranslated terms should be limited
    to culturally specific items explained in context or notes. Use standard English
    punctuation and spacing. Chapter-end couplets should be rendered as verse and
    may be set off from prose.
groups:
- path: chapter-1
  context: Imported from San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original
    with Brewitt-Taylor's 1925 translation. Document 'chapter-1', 16 segments in their
    original order; translate them as one continuous document, not as isolated sentences.
  entries:
  - id: chapter-1-001
    source: 建寧二年四月望日，帝御溫德殿。方陞座，殿角狂風驟起，只見一條大青蛇，從梁 上飛將下來，蟠於椅上。帝驚倒，左右急救入宮，百官俱奔避。須臾，蛇不見了。忽然
      大雷大雨，加以冰雹，落到半夜方止，壞卻房屋無數。建寧四年二月，洛陽地震；又海 水泛溢，沿海居民，盡被大浪捲入海中。光和元年，雌雞化雄。六月朔，黑氣十餘丈，
      飛入溫德殿中。秋七月，有虹見於玉堂；五原山岸，盡皆崩裂。種種不祥，非止一端。
    target: In the second year of Chien Ning, on the full-moon day of the fourth month,
      the Emperor went in state to the Wen Te Hall. As he was about to ascend the throne,
      a violent wind suddenly rose from a corner of the hall, and a great green serpent
      flew down from the beam and coiled itself upon the seat. The Emperor fell in
      terror; his attendants hurried him into the palace, and all the officials fled
      in every direction. In a moment the serpent had vanished. Then suddenly came
      great thunder and rain, with hail, which did not cease until midnight and destroyed
      countless houses. In the second month of the fourth year of Chien Ning, there
      was an earthquake at Lo-yang; and again the sea overflowed, so that the dwellers
      along the coast were all swept by the great waves into the sea. In the first
      year of Kuang-ho, a hen was changed into a cock. On the first day of the sixth
      month, a black vapor more than ten chang long flew into the Wen Te Hall. In the
      seventh month of autumn, a rainbow appeared above the Jade Hall; and the cliffs
      of Wu-yuan Mountain all split asunder. Such evil omens were not confined to
      a single kind.
    type: narration
    emotion:
    - formal
    - serious
    - anxious
    status: initial
    context: 'chapter 1 / chapter 1. Paragraph 1 of the chapter, aligned by index
      and verified (16 of 29 proposals accepted). Following segment: 帝下詔問群臣以災異之由，議郎蔡邕上疏，以為蜺墮雞化，乃婦寺干政之所致，言
      頗切直。帝覽奏歎息，因起更衣。曹節在後竊視，悉宣告左右。遂以他事陷邕於罪，放 歸田里。後張讓，趙忠，封諝…'
  - id: chapter-1-002
    source: 帝下詔問群臣以災異之由，議郎蔡邕上疏，以為蜺墮雞化，乃婦寺干政之所致，言 頗切直。帝覽奏歎息，因起更衣。曹節在後竊視，悉宣告左右。遂以他事陷邕於罪，放
      歸田里。後張讓，趙忠，封諝，段珪，曹節，候覽，蹇碩，程曠，夏惲，郭勝十人朋比 為奸，號為「十常侍」。帝尊信張讓，呼為「阿父」，朝政日非，以致天下人心思亂，
      盜賊蜂起。
    target: The Emperor issued an edict asking his ministers the cause of these calamities
      and portents. Ts'ai Yung, a Gentleman of Remonstrance, presented a memorial,
      holding that the falling of the rainbow and the changing of the hen were brought
      about by the meddling of women and eunuchs in the government; his words were
      somewhat blunt and direct. The Emperor, reading the memorial, sighed and rose
      to change his garments. Ts'ao Chieh, who stood behind, secretly watched him and
      told everything to those about him. Then upon another charge he brought Ts'ai
      Yung to ruin and sent him back to his fields. Afterwards Chang Jang, Chao Chung,
      Feng Hsü, Tuan Kuei, Ts'ao Chieh, Hou Lan, Chien Shuo, Ch'eng K'uang, Hsia Yün
      and Kuo Sheng, ten men in all, banded together for villainy and were known as
      the Ten Regular Attendants. The Emperor honored and trusted Chang Jang, calling
      him Father, and the government grew daily worse, until the hearts of the people
      turned toward disorder and robbers rose like swarms of bees.
    type: narration
    emotion:
    - formal
    - serious
    - sad
    status: initial
    context: 'chapter 1 / chapter 1. Paragraph 2 of the chapter, aligned by index
      and verified (16 of 29 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 建寧二年四月望日，帝御溫德殿。方陞座，殿角狂風驟起，只見一條大青蛇，從梁
      上飛將下來，蟠於椅上。帝驚倒，左右急救入宮，百官俱奔避。須臾，蛇不見了。忽然 大雷大雨，加以冰雹，落到半… Following segment: 時鉅鹿郡有兄弟三人：一名張角，一名張寶，一名張梁。那張角本是個不第秀才。
      因入山採藥，遇一老人，碧眼童顏，手執藜杖，喚角至一洞中，以天書三卷授之，曰： 「此名太平要術。汝得之，當…'
  - id: chapter-1-003
    source: 時鉅鹿郡有兄弟三人：一名張角，一名張寶，一名張梁。那張角本是個不第秀才。 因入山採藥，遇一老人，碧眼童顏，手執藜杖，喚角至一洞中，以天書三卷授之，曰：
      「此名太平要術。汝得之，當代天宣化，普救世人；若萌異心，必獲惡報。」角拜問姓 名。老人曰：「吾乃南華老仙也。」言訖，化陣清風而去。
    target: At that time there were three brothers in the district of Chü-lu, one named
      Chang Chüeh, one Chang Pao and one Chang Liang. This Chang Chüeh had been a graduate
      who had failed in the examination. Having gone into the hills to gather herbs,
      he met an old man with blue eyes and a boy's face, who carried a staff of wild
      pear wood. The old man called Chüeh into a cave and gave him three volumes of
      a heavenly book, saying, 'This is called the Essential Art of Great Peace. If
      you gain it, you should proclaim in the stead of Heaven and bring salvation to
      all the world. But if you conceive a rebellious heart, you will surely meet with
      evil retribution.' Chüeh bowed and asked his name. The old man said, 'I am the
      Old Immortal of Nan-hua.' Having spoken, he changed into a gust of clear wind
      and was gone.
    type: narration
    emotion:
    - formal
    - serious
    - curious
    status: initial
    context: 'chapter 1 / chapter 1. Paragraph 3 of the chapter, aligned by index
      and verified (16 of 29 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 帝下詔問群臣以災異之由，議郎蔡邕上疏，以為蜺墮雞化，乃婦寺干政之所致，言
      頗切直。帝覽奏歎息，因起更衣。曹節在後竊視，悉宣告左右。遂以他事陷邕於罪，放 歸田里。後張讓，趙忠，封諝… Following segment: 張角聞知事露，星夜舉兵，自稱天公將軍，─張寶稱地公將軍，張梁稱人公將軍─
      。申言於眾曰：「今漢運將終，大聖人出﹔汝等皆宜順從天意，以槳太平。」四方百姓 ，裹黃巾從張角反者，四五十…'
  - id: chapter-1-004
    source: 張角聞知事露，星夜舉兵，自稱天公將軍，─張寶稱地公將軍，張梁稱人公將軍─ 。申言於眾曰：「今漢運將終，大聖人出﹔汝等皆宜順從天意，以槳太平。」四方百姓
      ，裹黃巾從張角反者，四五十萬。賊勢浩大，官軍望風而靡。何進奏帝火速降詔，令各 處備禦，討賊立功；一面遣中郎將盧植，皇甫嵩，朱雋，各引精兵，分三路討之。
    target: When Chang Chüeh learned that the matter had leaked out, he raised his troops
      under cover of night and styled himself General of Heaven, while Chang Pao styled
      himself General of Earth and Chang Liang General of Man. He declared to the multitude,
      'The destiny of Han is now near its end, and a great sage has appeared. You should
      all obey the will of Heaven and enjoy the Great Peace.' From every quarter the
      common people bound yellow cloth about their heads and followed Chang Chüeh
      in rebellion, to the number of four or five hundred thousand. The rebel host
      was so vast that the government troops scattered at the mere sound of them. Ho
      Chin memorialized the Emperor to issue edicts with all speed, ordering every
      place to make provision for its defense and to win merit by destroying the rebels;
      and at the same time he sent the commandants Lu Chih, Huangfu Sung and Chu Chün,
      each at the head of picked troops, to attack by three separate routes.
    type: narration
    emotion:
    - formal
    - serious
    - urgent
    status: initial
    context: 'chapter 1 / chapter 1. Paragraph 4 of the chapter, aligned by index
      and verified (16 of 29 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 時鉅鹿郡有兄弟三人：一名張角，一名張寶，一名張梁。那張角本是個不第秀才。
      因入山採藥，遇一老人，碧眼童顏，手執藜杖，喚角至一洞中，以天書三卷授之，曰： 「此名太平要術。汝得之，當… Following segment: 且說張角一軍，前犯幽州界分。幽州太守劉焉，乃江夏竟陵人氏，漢魯恭王之後也
      ；當時聞得賊兵將至，召校尉鄒靖計議。靖曰：「賊兵眾，我兵寡，明公宜作速招軍應 敵。」劉焉然其說，隨即出榜…'
  - id: chapter-1-005
    source: 且說張角一軍，前犯幽州界分。幽州太守劉焉，乃江夏竟陵人氏，漢魯恭王之後也 ；當時聞得賊兵將至，召校尉鄒靖計議。靖曰：「賊兵眾，我兵寡，明公宜作速招軍應
      敵。」劉焉然其說，隨即出榜招募義兵。榜文行到涿縣，乃引出涿縣中一個英雄。
    target: Now to tell of one of Chang Chüeh's armies, which advanced into the borders
      of Yu-chou. The Prefect of Yu-chou, Liu Yen, was a native of Ching-ling in Chiang-hsia
      and a descendant of the Prince of Lu-kung of Han. When he heard that the rebel
      troops were at hand, he summoned the commandant Tsou Ching to take counsel with
      him. Ching said, 'The rebels are many and our soldiers few. Your Excellency should
      speedily raise levies to meet them.' Liu Yen approved his words and at once issued
      a proclamation calling for volunteers. The proclamation reached the district
      of Cho, and thereby brought forth a hero of that district.
    type: narration
    emotion:
    - formal
    - serious
    - neutral
    status: initial
    context: 'chapter 1 / chapter 1. Paragraph 5 of the chapter, aligned by index
      and verified (16 of 29 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 張角聞知事露，星夜舉兵，自稱天公將軍，─張寶稱地公將軍，張梁稱人公將軍─
      。申言於眾曰：「今漢運將終，大聖人出﹔汝等皆宜順從天意，以槳太平。」四方百姓 ，裹黃巾從張角反者，四五十… Following segment: 那人不甚好讀書；性寬和，寡言語，喜怒不形於色；素有大志，專好結交天下豪傑
      ；生得身長七尺五寸，兩耳垂肩，雙手過膝，目能自顧其耳，面如冠玉，脣若塗脂；中 山靖王劉勝之後，漢景帝閣下…'
  - id: chapter-1-006
    source: 那人不甚好讀書；性寬和，寡言語，喜怒不形於色；素有大志，專好結交天下豪傑 ；生得身長七尺五寸，兩耳垂肩，雙手過膝，目能自顧其耳，面如冠玉，脣若塗脂；中
      山靖王劉勝之後，漢景帝閣下玄孫﹔姓劉，名備，字玄德。昔劉勝之子劉貞，漢武時封 涿鹿亭侯，後坐酬金失侯，因此遺這一枝在涿縣。玄德祖劉雄，父劉弘。弘曾舉孝廉，
      亦嘗作吏，早喪。玄德幼孤，事母至孝；家貧，販屨織蓆為業。家住本縣樓桑村。其家 之東南，有一大桑樹，高五丈餘，遙望之，童童如車蓋。相者云：「此家必出貴人。」
    target: That man was not fond of study; he was mild and generous by nature, sparing
      of speech, and never showed pleasure or anger on his face. He had long cherished
      great ambitions, and his chief delight was to make friends with the brave men
      of the empire. He stood seven feet five inches tall; his ears hung down to his
      shoulders, his hands reached below his knees, and his eyes could turn to see
      his own ears. His face was as fair as polished jade and his lips as though painted
      with vermilion. He was a descendant of Liu Sheng, Prince Ching of Chung-shan,
      and a great-great-grandson of the Emperor Ching of Han. His surname was Liu,
      his name Pei, his style Hsüan-te. Formerly Liu Chen, son of Liu Sheng, had been
      made Marquis of Cho-lu in the time of the Emperor Wu of Han, but afterwards,
      having lost his rank in the affair of the sacrificial gold, he left this branch
      of the family in the district of Cho. Hsüan-te's grandfather was Liu Hsiung and
      his father Liu Hung. Liu Hung had been recommended as a man of filial piety and
      integrity and had also served as an official, but he died early. Hsüan-te, left
      an orphan in childhood, served his mother with the utmost devotion; his family
      was poor, and he lived by selling straw sandals and weaving mats. His house stood
      in the village of Lou-sang of that district. To the southeast of the house there
      was a great mulberry tree more than five chang high; viewed from afar, its leafy
      crown spread out like the canopy of a carriage. A physiognomist said, 'This family
      will surely produce a man of honor.'
    type: narration
    emotion:
    - formal
    - serious
    - hopeful
    status: initial
    context: 'chapter 1 / chapter 1. Paragraph 6 of the chapter, aligned by index
      and verified (16 of 29 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 且說張角一軍，前犯幽州界分。幽州太守劉焉，乃江夏竟陵人氏，漢魯恭王之後也
      ；當時聞得賊兵將至，召校尉鄒靖計議。靖曰：「賊兵眾，我兵寡，明公宜作速招軍應 敵。」劉焉然其說，隨即出榜… Following segment: 飛曰：「吾莊後有一桃園，花開正盛；明日當於園中祭告天地，我三人結為兄弟，
      協力同心，然後可圖大事。」玄德、雲長、齊聲應曰：「如此甚好。」次日，於桃園中 ，備下烏牛白馬祭禮等項，三…'
  - id: chapter-1-007
    source: 飛曰：「吾莊後有一桃園，花開正盛；明日當於園中祭告天地，我三人結為兄弟， 協力同心，然後可圖大事。」玄德、雲長、齊聲應曰：「如此甚好。」次日，於桃園中
      ，備下烏牛白馬祭禮等項，三人焚香，再拜而說誓曰：「念劉備、關羽、張飛，雖然異 姓，既結為兄弟，則同心協力，救困扶危；上報國家，下安黎庶；不求同年同月同日生
      ，但願同年同月同日死。皇天后土，實鑒此心。背義忘恩，天人共戮。」誓畢，拜玄德 為兄，關羽次之，張飛為弟。祭罷天地，復宰牛設酒，聚鄉中勇士，得三百餘人，就桃
      園中痛飲一醉。來日收拾軍器，但恨無馬匹可乘。
    target: Fei said, 'Behind my farm there is a peach garden, and the flowers are now
      in full bloom. Tomorrow let us go into the garden and sacrifice to Heaven and
      Earth, and we three will become brothers, so that with one heart and united strength
      we may plan a great enterprise.' Hsüan-te and Yün-chang answered with one voice,
      'That would be excellent.' The next day, in the peach garden, they made ready
      the black ox, the white horse and the other offerings for the sacrifice. The
      three men burned incense, bowed twice and spoke their oath, saying, 'We, Liu
      Pei, Kuan Yü and Chang Fei, though of different surnames, are now joined as brothers.
      Henceforth we shall be of one mind and one strength, to rescue the distressed
      and succor the endangered, above to serve the state and below to bring peace
      to the people. We ask not to be born in the same year, the same month and the
      same day, but we pray that we may die in the same year, the same month and the
      same day. O August Heaven and Earth, behold this heart of ours. If we prove false
      to righteousness and forgetful of gratitude, may Heaven and man alike put us
      to death.' When the oath was ended, they paid reverence to Hsüan-te as the eldest
      brother, Kuan Yü next, and Chang Fei as the youngest. When the sacrifice to Heaven
      and Earth was over, they slaughtered the ox and set out wine, and gathered the
      brave men of the village, of whom they got more than three hundred, and in the
      peach garden they drank till they were merry. On the morrow they made ready their
      weapons, grieving only that they had no horses to ride.
    type: narration
    emotion:
    - formal
    - serious
    - hopeful
    status: initial
    context: 'chapter 1 / chapter 1. Paragraph 7 of the chapter, aligned by index
      and verified (16 of 29 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 那人不甚好讀書；性寬和，寡言語，喜怒不形於色；素有大志，專好結交天下豪傑
      ；生得身長七尺五寸，兩耳垂肩，雙手過膝，目能自顧其耳，面如冠玉，脣若塗脂；中 山靖王劉勝之後，漢景帝閣下… Following segment: 英雄發穎在今朝，一試矛兮一試刀。初出便將威力展，三分好把姓名標。'
  - id: chapter-1-008
    source: 英雄發穎在今朝，一試矛兮一試刀。初出便將威力展，三分好把姓名標。
    target: The hero's worth shines forth this very day;
      He tries the spear, he tries the blade.
      At his first sally all his power he shows,
      And well may win a name in the Threefold Age.
    type: narration
    emotion:
    - formal
    - hopeful
    - serious
    status: initial
    context: 'chapter 1 / chapter 1. Paragraph 8 of the chapter, aligned by index
      and verified (16 of 29 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 飛曰：「吾莊後有一桃園，花開正盛；明日當於園中祭告天地，我三人結為兄弟，
      協力同心，然後可圖大事。」玄德、雲長、齊聲應曰：「如此甚好。」次日，於桃園中 ，備下烏牛白馬祭禮等項，三… Following segment: 次日，玄德與鄒靖，引軍鼓譟而進。賊眾迎戰，玄德引軍便退。賊眾乘勢追趕，方
      過山嶺，玄德軍中一齊鳴金，左右兩軍齊出，玄德麾軍回身復殺。三路夾攻，賊眾大潰 。直趕至青州城下，太守龔景…'
  - id: chapter-1-009
    source: 次日，玄德與鄒靖，引軍鼓譟而進。賊眾迎戰，玄德引軍便退。賊眾乘勢追趕，方 過山嶺，玄德軍中一齊鳴金，左右兩軍齊出，玄德麾軍回身復殺。三路夾攻，賊眾大潰
      。直趕至青州城下，太守龔景亦率民兵出城助戰。賊勢大敗，剿戮極多，遂解青州之圍 。後人有詩讚玄德曰：
    target: The next day Hsüan-te and Tsou Ching led their troops forward with drums
      beating and loud shouts. The rebels came out to meet them, and Hsüan-te led his
      men back in retreat. The rebels pressed their advantage and pursued. Just as
      they had passed the ridge, the gongs sounded all at once throughout Hsüan-te's
      army, and the two forces on the left and right came out together, while Hsüan-te
      wheeled his men about and charged again. Attacked on three sides at once, the
      rebels were utterly routed. They were chased right up to the walls of Ch'ing-chou,
      where the Prefect Kung Ching also led out the militia from the city to aid in
      the fight. The rebels were badly beaten and great numbers of them were slain,
      and the siege of Ch'ing-chou was raised. Afterwards a man wrote a poem in praise
      of Hsüan-te, saying,
    type: narration
    emotion:
    - formal
    - serious
    - joyful
    status: initial
    context: 'chapter 1 / chapter 1. Paragraph 9 of the chapter, aligned by index
      and verified (16 of 29 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 英雄發穎在今朝，一試矛兮一試刀。初出便將威力展，三分好把姓名標。
      Following segment: 運籌決算有神功，二虎還須遜一龍。初出便能垂偉績，自應分鼎在孤窮。'
  - id: chapter-1-010
    source: 運籌決算有神功，二虎還須遜一龍。初出便能垂偉績，自應分鼎在孤窮。
    target: In counsel and in stratagem his power was divine;
      The two fierce tigers must yield to the one lone dragon.
      At his first venture he could leave great deeds behind,
      And surely he was fated to share the tripod, poor and alone.
    type: narration
    emotion:
    - formal
    - hopeful
    - serious
    status: initial
    context: 'chapter 1 / chapter 1. Paragraph 10 of the chapter, aligned by index
      and verified (16 of 29 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 次日，玄德與鄒靖，引軍鼓譟而進。賊眾迎戰，玄德引軍便退。賊眾乘勢追趕，方
      過山嶺，玄德軍中一齊鳴金，左右兩軍齊出，玄德麾軍回身復殺。三路夾攻，賊眾大潰 。直趕至青州城下，太守龔景… Following segment: 龔景犒軍畢，鄒靖欲回。玄德曰：「近聞中郎將盧植與賊首張角戰於廣宗，備昔曾
      師事盧植，欲往助之。」於是鄒靖引軍自回，玄德與關、張引本部五百人投廣宗來。至 盧植軍中，入帳施禮，具道來…'
  - id: chapter-1-011
    source: 龔景犒軍畢，鄒靖欲回。玄德曰：「近聞中郎將盧植與賊首張角戰於廣宗，備昔曾 師事盧植，欲往助之。」於是鄒靖引軍自回，玄德與關、張引本部五百人投廣宗來。至
      盧植軍中，入帳施禮，具道來意。盧植大喜，留在帳前聽調。
    target: When Kung Ching had finished rewarding the troops, Tsou Ching wished to
      return. Hsüan-te said, 'I have lately heard that the commandant Lu Chih is fighting
      the rebel leader Chang Chüeh at Kuang-tsung. I once studied under Lu Chih, and
      I wish to go and aid him.' So Tsou Ching led his troops back, and Hsüan-te, with
      Kuan and Chang, took his own five hundred men and set out for Kuang-tsung. Arriving
      in Lu Chih's camp, he entered the tent and made his obeisance, and set forth
      his purpose fully. Lu Chih was greatly pleased and kept him before the tent awaiting
      orders.
    type: narration
    emotion:
    - formal
    - serious
    - neutral
    status: initial
    context: 'chapter 1 / chapter 1. Paragraph 11 of the chapter, aligned by index
      and verified (16 of 29 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 運籌決算有神功，二虎還須遜一龍。初出便能垂偉績，自應分鼎在孤窮。
      Following segment: 時張角賊眾十五萬，植兵五萬，相拒於廣宗，未見勝負。植謂玄德曰：「我今圍賊 在此，賊弟張梁，張寶在潁川，與皇甫嵩、朱雋對壘。汝可引本部人馬，我更助汝一千
      官軍，前去潁川打探消息，約…'
  - id: chapter-1-012
    source: 時張角賊眾十五萬，植兵五萬，相拒於廣宗，未見勝負。植謂玄德曰：「我今圍賊 在此，賊弟張梁，張寶在潁川，與皇甫嵩、朱雋對壘。汝可引本部人馬，我更助汝一千
      官軍，前去潁川打探消息，約期剿捕。」玄德領命，引軍星夜投潁川來。時皇甫嵩、朱 雋領軍拒賊，賊戰不利，退入長社，依草結營。嵩與雋計曰：「賊依草結營，當用火攻
      之。」遂令軍士，每人束草一把，暗地埋伏。其夜大風忽起。二更以後，一齊縱火，嵩 與雋各引兵攻擊賊寨，火燄張天，賊眾驚慌，馬不及鞍，人不及甲，四散奔走。殺到天
      明，張梁、張寶引敗殘軍士，奪路而走。
    target: At that time Chang Chüeh's rebel host numbered one hundred and fifty thousand,
      while Chih had fifty thousand men. They faced each other at Kuang-tsung without
      either gaining the upper hand. Chih said to Hsüan-te, 'I am holding the rebels
      at bay here, while the rebel brothers Chang Liang and Chang Pao are at Ying-ch'uan,
      facing Huangfu Sung and Chu Chün. You may take your own men, and I will add a
      thousand government troops to aid you; go to Ying-ch'uan and discover how matters
      stand, and we will fix a time for their extermination.' Hsüan-te received the
      order and marched night and day toward Ying-ch'uan. At that time Huangfu Sung
      and Chu Chün were opposing the rebels, and the rebels, having fared ill, retired
      into Ch'ang-she, where they made camp among the grass. Sung and Chün took counsel
      together, saying, 'The rebels have pitched their camp among the grass; we should
      attack them with fire.' So they ordered every soldier to bind a bundle of grass
      and to lie hidden in ambush. That night a great wind suddenly arose. After the
      second watch, fire was set on every side at once, and Sung and Chün each led
      his troops against the rebel camp. The flames reached to the sky, and the rebels
      in their panic had no time to saddle their horses or to put on their armor, but
      scattered and fled in all directions. The slaughter went on till dawn, when Chang
      Liang and Chang Pao, with the remnants of their beaten troops, fought their way
      out and fled.
    type: narration
    emotion:
    - formal
    - serious
    - urgent
    status: initial
    context: 'chapter 1 / chapter 1. Paragraph 12 of the chapter, aligned by index
      and verified (16 of 29 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 龔景犒軍畢，鄒靖欲回。玄德曰：「近聞中郎將盧植與賊首張角戰於廣宗，備昔曾
      師事盧植，欲往助之。」於是鄒靖引軍自回，玄德與關、張引本部五百人投廣宗來。至 盧植軍中，入帳施禮，具道來… Following segment: 忽見一彪軍馬，盡打紅旗，當頭來到，截往去路。為首閃出一將，身長七尺，細眼
      長髯；官拜騎都尉；沛國譙郡人也：姓曹，名操，字孟德。操父曹嵩，本姓夏侯氏；因 為中常侍曹騰之養子，故冒姓…'
  - id: chapter-1-013
    source: 忽見一彪軍馬，盡打紅旗，當頭來到，截往去路。為首閃出一將，身長七尺，細眼 長髯；官拜騎都尉；沛國譙郡人也：姓曹，名操，字孟德。操父曹嵩，本姓夏侯氏；因
      為中常侍曹騰之養子，故冒姓曹。曹嵩生操，小字阿瞞，一名吉利。操幼時，好游獵， 喜歌舞；有權謀，多機變。操有叔父，見操游蕩無度，嘗怒之，言於曹嵩。嵩責操。操
      忽心生一計：見叔父來，詐倒於地，作中風之狀。叔父驚告嵩，嵩急視之，操故無恙。 嵩曰：「叔言汝中風，今己愈乎？」操曰：「兒自來無此病；因失愛於叔父，故見罔耳
      。」嵩信其言。後叔父但言操過，嵩並不聽。因此，操得恣意放蕩。
    target: Suddenly there appeared a body of horse and foot, all with red banners,
      coming straight toward them and cutting off the road. From the front there flashed
      out a leader seven feet in height, with narrow eyes and a long beard. He held
      the office of Cavalry Commandant and was a man of Ch'iao in the principality
      of P'ei. His surname was Ts'ao; his name, Ts'ao; his style, Meng-te. Ts'ao Ts'ao's
      father, Ts'ao Sung, was originally of the Hsia-hou family; because he became
      the adopted son of the Regular Attendant Ts'ao T'eng, he took the surname Ts'ao.
      Ts'ao Sung begot Ts'ao Ts'ao, whose boyish name was A-man and who was also called
      Chi-li. In his youth Ts'ao Ts'ao loved hunting and roaming and delighted in song
      and dance; he was crafty and full of shifting schemes. Ts'ao Ts'ao had an uncle
      who, seeing him give himself up to idleness without restraint, was often angry
      with him and complained to Ts'ao Sung. Sung reproved Ts'ao Ts'ao. Then Ts'ao
      Ts'ao suddenly conceived a plan. When he saw his uncle coming, he pretended to
      fall to the ground in a fit of apoplexy. His uncle, alarmed, told Sung, who hurried
      to look at him, but Ts'ao Ts'ao was quite well as before. Sung said, 'Your uncle
      said you had a fit; are you recovered now?' Ts'ao Ts'ao replied, 'I never had
      such an illness; it is only because I have lost my uncle's affection that he
      deceives you about me.' Sung believed his words. Afterwards, whenever the uncle
      spoke of Ts'ao Ts'ao's faults, Sung would not listen. Thus Ts'ao Ts'ao was free
      to indulge his waywardness to the full.
    type: narration
    emotion:
    - objective
    - formal
    status: initial
    context: 'chapter 1 / chapter 1. Paragraph 13 of the chapter, aligned by index
      and verified (16 of 29 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 時張角賊眾十五萬，植兵五萬，相拒於廣宗，未見勝負。植謂玄德曰：「我今圍賊
      在此，賊弟張梁，張寶在潁川，與皇甫嵩、朱雋對壘。汝可引本部人馬，我更助汝一千 官軍，前去潁川打探消息，約… Following segment: 卻說玄德引關、張來潁川，聽得喊殺之聲，又望見火光燭天，急引兵來時，賊已敗
      散。玄德見皇甫嵩，朱雋，其道盧植之意。嵩曰：「張梁、張寶勢窮力乏，必投廣宗去 依張角。玄德可即星夜往助。」'
  - id: chapter-1-014
    source: 卻說玄德引關、張來潁川，聽得喊殺之聲，又望見火光燭天，急引兵來時，賊已敗 散。玄德見皇甫嵩，朱雋，其道盧植之意。嵩曰：「張梁、張寶勢窮力乏，必投廣宗去
      依張角。玄德可即星夜往助。」
    target: Now to tell of Hsüan-te, who came with Kuan and Chang to Ying-ch'uan. Hearing
      the shouts of battle and seeing the flames lighting up the sky, he hurried his
      troops forward, but by the time he arrived the rebels had already been routed
      and scattered. Hsüan-te went to see Huangfu Sung and Chu Chün and explained Lu
      Chih's purpose. Sung said, 'Chang Liang and Chang Pao are at the end of their
      strength and will surely flee to Kuang-tsung to join Chang Chüeh. Hsüan-te should
      march night and day to lend aid.'
    type: narration
    emotion:
    - neutral
    - formal
    status: initial
    context: 'chapter 1 / chapter 1. Paragraph 14 of the chapter, aligned by index
      and verified (16 of 29 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 忽見一彪軍馬，盡打紅旗，當頭來到，截往去路。為首閃出一將，身長七尺，細眼
      長髯；官拜騎都尉；沛國譙郡人也：姓曹，名操，字孟德。操父曹嵩，本姓夏侯氏；因 為中常侍曹騰之養子，故冒姓… Following segment: 玄德領命，遂引兵復回。到得半路，只見一簇軍馬，護送一輛檻車，車中之囚，乃
      盧植也。玄德大驚，滾鞍下馬，問其緣故。植曰：「我圍張角，將次可破；因角用妖術 ，未能即勝。朝廷差黃門左豐…'
  - id: chapter-1-015
    source: 玄德領命，遂引兵復回。到得半路，只見一簇軍馬，護送一輛檻車，車中之囚，乃 盧植也。玄德大驚，滾鞍下馬，問其緣故。植曰：「我圍張角，將次可破；因角用妖術
      ，未能即勝。朝廷差黃門左豐前來體探，問我索取賄賂。我答曰：『軍糧尚缺，安有餘 錢奉承天使？』左豐挾恨，回奏朝廷，說我高壘不戰，惰慢軍心；因此朝廷震怒，遣中
      郎將董卓來代將我兵，取我回京問罪。」
    target: Hsüan-te received the order and led his troops back. When they had gone
      half the way, they saw a body of soldiers escorting a prison cart, and the prisoner
      in the cart was none other than Lu Chih. Hsüan-te, greatly shocked, rolled from
      his saddle and dismounted and asked the reason. Chih said, 'I had Chang Chüeh
      surrounded and was about to overcome him, but because Chüeh used sorcery I could
      not win at once. The court sent the Yellow Gate Tso Feng to inspect the army,
      and he demanded a bribe from me. I answered, "The pay of the troops is still
      in arrears; how should I have spare money to give to the imperial envoy?" Tso
      Feng bore a grudge, and on his return he reported to the court that I had built
      high ramparts and would not fight, slackening the spirit of the army. The court
      was enraged and sent the commandant Tung Cho to take command of my troops in
      my place and to bring me back to the capital for trial.'
    type: narration
    emotion:
    - serious
    - sad
    - formal
    status: initial
    context: 'chapter 1 / chapter 1. Paragraph 15 of the chapter, aligned by index
      and verified (16 of 29 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 卻說玄德引關、張來潁川，聽得喊殺之聲，又望見火光燭天，急引兵來時，賊已敗
      散。玄德見皇甫嵩，朱雋，其道盧植之意。嵩曰：「張梁、張寶勢窮力乏，必投廣宗去 依張角。玄德可即星夜往助。」 Following segment: 三人飛馬引軍而出。張角正殺敗董卓，乘勢趕來，忽遇三人衝殺，角軍大亂，敗走
      五十餘里。三人救了董卓回寨。卓問三人現居何職。玄德曰：「白身。」卓甚輕之，不 為禮。玄德出，張飛大怒曰：…'
  - id: chapter-1-016
    source: 三人飛馬引軍而出。張角正殺敗董卓，乘勢趕來，忽遇三人衝殺，角軍大亂，敗走 五十餘里。三人救了董卓回寨。卓問三人現居何職。玄德曰：「白身。」卓甚輕之，不
      為禮。玄德出，張飛大怒曰：「我等親赴血戰，救了這廝，他卻如此無禮﹔若不殺之， 難消我氣！」便要提刀入帳來殺董卓。正是：人情勢利古猶今，誰識英雄是白身？安得
      快人如翼德，盡誅世上負心人！畢竟董卓性命如何，且看下文分解。
    target: The three spurred their horses and led their troops out. Chang Chüeh had
      just defeated Tung Cho and was following up his advantage when he suddenly met
      the three charging upon him. Chüeh's army fell into confusion and fled more than
      fifty li. The three rescued Tung Cho and brought him back to the camp. Cho asked
      what offices the three held. Hsüan-te answered, 'Commoners.' Cho treated them
      with great contempt and paid them no courtesy. As Hsüan-te went out, Chang Fei
      flew into a fury and said, 'We went ourselves into bloody battle and saved that
      fellow, and he is so rude! If I do not kill him, my anger will never be appeased!'
      He was about to seize his sword and enter the tent to slay Tung Cho. Truly it
      is said,
      The world's way, snobbish now as in the olden days,
      Who knows the hero in a commoner's guise?
      Ah, that a man like I-te could be found,
      To slay all the ungrateful ones on earth!
      How Tung Cho's life fared, you must read in the next chapter to learn.
    type: narration
    emotion:
    - angry
    - serious
    - formal
    status: initial
    context: 'chapter 1 / chapter 1. Paragraph 16 of the chapter, aligned by index
      and verified (16 of 29 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 玄德領命，遂引兵復回。到得半路，只見一簇軍馬，護送一輛檻車，車中之囚，乃
      盧植也。玄德大驚，滾鞍下馬，問其緣故。植曰：「我圍張角，將次可破；因角用妖術 ，未能即勝。朝廷差黃門左豐…'
- path: chapter-2
  context: Imported from San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original
    with Brewitt-Taylor's 1925 translation. Document 'chapter-2', 6 segments in their
    original order; translate them as one continuous document, not as isolated sentences.
  entries:
  - id: chapter-2-001
    source: 中平六年，夏四月，靈帝病篤，召大將軍何進入宮，商議後事。那何進起身屠家； 因妹入宮為貴人，生皇子辯，遂立為皇后，進由是得權重任。帝又寵幸王美人，生皇子
      協。何后嫉妒，鴆殺王美人。皇子協養於董太后宮中。董太后乃靈帝之母，解瀆亭侯劉 萇之妻也。初因桓帝無子，迎立解瀆亭侯之子，是為靈帝。靈帝入繼大統，遂迎養母氏
      於宮中，尊為太后。
    target: In the sixth year of Chung-p'ing, in summer, the fourth month, the Emperor
      Ling lay grievously ill and summoned the Great General Ho Chin into the palace
      to discuss the affairs that should follow his death. Now Ho Chin came of a family
      of butchers. Because his sister entered the palace as a lady of rank and bore
      the Emperor a son, Prince Pien, she was made Empress, and Ho Chin thereby gained
      power and high office. The Emperor also favored the fair Lady Wang, who bore
      him a son, Prince Hsieh. The Empress Ho, in jealousy, poisoned Lady Wang. Prince
      Hsieh was brought up in the palace of the Empress Dowager Tung. The Empress Dowager
      Tung was the mother of the Emperor Ling and the wife of Liu Ch'ang, Marquis of
      Chieh-tu-ting. Formerly, because the Emperor Huan had no son, the son of the
      Marquis of Chieh-tu-ting was brought to court and made Emperor, and he was the
      Emperor Ling. When the Emperor Ling succeeded to the imperial line, he brought
      his foster mother into the palace and honored her as Empress Dowager.
    type: narration
    emotion:
    - formal
    - objective
    - serious
    status: initial
    context: 'chapter 2 / chapter 2. Paragraph 1 of the chapter, aligned by index
      and verified (6 of 28 proposals accepted). Following segment: 何進聽罷，出謂眾官曰：「蹇碩設謀害我，可族滅其家。其餘不必妄加殘害。」袁
      紹曰：「若不斬草除根，必為喪身之本。」進曰：「吾意已決，汝勿多言。」眾官皆退 。'
  - id: chapter-2-002
    source: 何進聽罷，出謂眾官曰：「蹇碩設謀害我，可族滅其家。其餘不必妄加殘害。」袁 紹曰：「若不斬草除根，必為喪身之本。」進曰：「吾意已決，汝勿多言。」眾官皆退
      。
    target: When Ho Chin had heard all, he went out and said to the assembled officials,
      'Chien Shuo plotted to destroy me; let his whole clan be exterminated. As for
      the rest, there is no need to slay them wantonly.' Yüan Shao said, 'If you do
      not cut the grass and pull out the roots, it will surely be the death of you.'
      Chin replied, 'My mind is made up; say no more.' And the officials all withdrew.
    type: dialogue
    emotion:
    - angry
    - serious
    - urgent
    status: initial
    context: 'chapter 2 / chapter 2. Paragraph 2 of the chapter, aligned by index
      and verified (6 of 28 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 中平六年，夏四月，靈帝病篤，召大將軍何進入宮，商議後事。那何進起身屠家；
      因妹入宮為貴人，生皇子辯，遂立為皇后，進由是得權重任。帝又寵幸王美人，生皇子 協。何后嫉妒，鴆殺王美人。… Following segment: 次日，太后命何進參錄尚書事，其餘皆封官職。董太后宣張讓等入宮商議曰：「何
      進之妹，始初我抬舉他。今日他孩兒即皇帝位，內外臣僚，皆其心腹：威權太重，我將 如何？」讓奏曰：「娘娘可臨…'
  - id: chapter-2-003
    source: 次日，太后命何進參錄尚書事，其餘皆封官職。董太后宣張讓等入宮商議曰：「何 進之妹，始初我抬舉他。今日他孩兒即皇帝位，內外臣僚，皆其心腹：威權太重，我將
      如何？」讓奏曰：「娘娘可臨朝，垂簾聽政；封皇子協為王；加國舅董重大官，掌握軍 權；重用臣等：大事可圖矣。」
    target: The next day the Empress Dowager commanded Ho Chin to share in the affairs
      of the Imperial Secretariat, and all the others were given offices. The Empress
      Dowager Tung summoned Chang Jang and the others into the palace and took counsel
      with them, saying, 'It was I who first raised up the sister of Ho Chin. Now that
      her son sits on the imperial throne, all the officials within and without the
      court are her creatures; her power is too great. What shall I do?' Jang replied,
      'Your Highness may hold court in person and govern from behind the curtain; make
      Prince Hsieh a prince of the blood; give Tung Chung, brother of the Empress Dowager,
      a high office and the command of the army; and employ us, your servants, in weighty
      posts. Then great things may be compassed.'
    type: dialogue
    emotion:
    - anxious
    - formal
    - serious
    status: initial
    context: 'chapter 2 / chapter 2. Paragraph 3 of the chapter, aligned by index
      and verified (6 of 28 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 何進聽罷，出謂眾官曰：「蹇碩設謀害我，可族滅其家。其餘不必妄加殘害。」袁
      紹曰：「若不斬草除根，必為喪身之本。」進曰：「吾意已決，汝勿多言。」眾官皆退 。 Following segment: 董太后大喜。次日設朝，董太后降旨，封皇子協為陳留王，董重為驃騎將軍，張讓
      等共預朝政。何太后見董太后專權，於宮中設一宴，請董太后赴席。酒至半酣，何太后 起身捧盃再拜曰：「我等皆婦…'
  - id: chapter-2-004
    source: 董太后大喜。次日設朝，董太后降旨，封皇子協為陳留王，董重為驃騎將軍，張讓 等共預朝政。何太后見董太后專權，於宮中設一宴，請董太后赴席。酒至半酣，何太后
      起身捧盃再拜曰：「我等皆婦人也，參預朝政，非其所宜。昔呂后因握重權，宗族千口 皆被戮。今我等宜深居九重；朝廷大事，任大臣元老自行商議，此國家之幸也。願垂聽
      焉。」董太后大怒曰：「汝鴆死王美人，設心嫉妒。今倚汝子為君，與汝兄何進之勢， 輒敢亂言！吾敕驃騎斷汝兄首，如反掌耳！」何后亦怒曰：「吾以好言相勸，何反怒耶
      ？」董后曰：「汝家屠沽小輩，有何見識！」
    target: The Empress Dowager Tung was greatly pleased. The next day, when court
      was held, she issued a decree making Prince Hsieh the Prince of Ch'en-liu and
      Tung Chung General of the Flying Cavalry, while Chang Jang and the others shared
      in the conduct of state affairs. When the Empress Dowager Ho saw that the Empress
      Dowager Tung monopolized the power, she prepared a banquet in the palace and
      invited her to it. When the wine had gone halfway, the Empress Dowager Ho rose,
      raised her cup, bowed twice and said, 'We are all women, and it is not fitting
      that we should meddle in the affairs of state. Formerly, because the Empress
      Lü grasped great power, a thousand of her clan were put to death. We should now
      keep within the inner palace; let the great ministers and elder statesmen discuss
      the affairs of state among themselves. This would be the country's good fortune.
      I beg you to give ear to me.' The Empress Dowager Tung flew into a rage and said,
      'You poisoned Lady Wang to death, for your heart is full of jealousy. Now, relying
      on your son's being emperor and on the power of your brother Ho Chin, you dare
      to talk wildly. If I order the Flying Cavalry General to cut off your brother's
      head, it will be as easy as turning my hand.' The Empress Ho was angry also and
      said, 'I counseled you with kind words; why are you angry?' The Empress Dowager
      Tung said, 'You come of a family of butchers and wine-sellers; what understanding
      can you have?'
    type: dialogue
    emotion:
    - angry
    - formal
    - rude
    - serious
    status: initial
    context: 'chapter 2 / chapter 2. Paragraph 4 of the chapter, aligned by index
      and verified (6 of 28 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 次日，太后命何進參錄尚書事，其餘皆封官職。董太后宣張讓等入宮商議曰：「何
      進之妹，始初我抬舉他。今日他孩兒即皇帝位，內外臣僚，皆其心腹：威權太重，我將 如何？」讓奏曰：「娘娘可臨… Following segment: 少頃，何進入白后，欲誅中涓。何后曰：「中官統領禁省，漢家故事。先帝新棄天
      下，爾欲誅殺舊臣，非重宗廟也。」進本是沒決斷之人，聽太后言，唯唯而出。袁紹迎 問曰：「大事若何？」進曰：…'
  - id: chapter-2-005
    source: 少頃，何進入白后，欲誅中涓。何后曰：「中官統領禁省，漢家故事。先帝新棄天 下，爾欲誅殺舊臣，非重宗廟也。」進本是沒決斷之人，聽太后言，唯唯而出。袁紹迎
      問曰：「大事若何？」進曰：「太后不允，如之奈何？」紹曰：「可召四方英雄人士， 勒兵來京，盡誅閹豎。此時事急，不容太后不從。」進曰：「此計大妙！」便發檄至各
      鎮，召赴京師。
    target: A little later Ho Chin went in and told the Empress that he wished to put
      the eunuchs to death. The Empress Ho said, 'The eunuchs have charge of the palace
      precincts; that has been the practice of the Han house. The late Emperor has
      but lately departed from the world, and you wish to slay his old servants. That
      is no way to show respect for the ancestral temple.' Ho Chin, being by nature
      a man who could not make up his mind, heard the Empress Dowager's words and assented
      and went out. Yüan Shao met him and asked, 'How goes the great matter?' Chin
      said, 'The Empress Dowager will not consent; what is to be done?' Shao replied,
      'Summon the heroes and men of valor from every quarter to bring their troops
      to the capital and put all the eunuchs to the sword. The times are urgent and
      will not suffer the Empress Dowager to refuse.' Chin said, 'That is a most excellent
      plan.' So he sent out proclamations to the various garrisons, summoning them
      to the capital.
    type: narration
    emotion:
    - anxious
    - serious
    - urgent
    status: initial
    context: 'chapter 2 / chapter 2. Paragraph 5 of the chapter, aligned by index
      and verified (6 of 28 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 董太后大喜。次日設朝，董太后降旨，封皇子協為陳留王，董重為驃騎將軍，張讓
      等共預朝政。何太后見董太后專權，於宮中設一宴，請董太后赴席。酒至半酣，何太后 起身捧盃再拜曰：「我等皆婦… Following segment: 主簿陳琳曰：「不可！俗云：『掩目而捕燕雀』，是自欺也。微物尚不可欺以得志
      ，況國家大事乎？今將軍仗皇威，掌兵要，龍驤虎步，高下在心：若欲誅宦官，如鼓洪 爐燎毛髮耳。但當速發，行權…'
  - id: chapter-2-006
    source: 主簿陳琳曰：「不可！俗云：『掩目而捕燕雀』，是自欺也。微物尚不可欺以得志 ，況國家大事乎？今將軍仗皇威，掌兵要，龍驤虎步，高下在心：若欲誅宦官，如鼓洪
      爐燎毛髮耳。但當速發，行權立斷，則天人順之﹔卻反外檄大臣，臨犯京闕，英雄聚會 ，各懷一心：所謂倒持干戈，授人以柄，功必一成，反生亂矣。」何進笑曰：「此懦夫
      之見也！」傍邊一人鼓掌大笑曰：「此事易如反掌，何必多議！」視之，乃曹操也。正 是：欲除君側宵人亂，須聽朝中智士謀。不知曹操說出甚話來，且聽下文分解。
    target: The Secretary Ch'en Lin said, 'That will not do. As the saying goes,
      "To catch swallows and sparrows with the eyes shut" is to deceive oneself.
      Even small creatures cannot be taken by deceit in the hope of success, let alone
      the great affairs of state. Now, General, you rely upon the imperial majesty
      and hold the military power in your hand; you stride like a dragon and a tiger,
      and all things lie within your will. If you wish to put the eunuchs to death,
      it is like blowing up a great furnace to burn a hair. You have only to act quickly,
      to use your authority and decide at once, and Heaven and man will follow you.
      But instead you summon great ministers from without to come to the capital.
      When the heroes gather, each with a mind of his own, it is what is called holding
      the spear reversed and giving the handle to another. The deed may be done at
      the first stroke, but disorder will follow.' Ho Chin laughed and said, 'That
      is the view of a coward.' Then one beside him clapped his hands and laughed
      aloud, saying, 'This matter is as easy as turning over one's hand. Why so much
      talk?' They looked, and it was Ts'ao Ts'ao. Truly it is said,
      Would you rid the ruler of the vermin at his side,
      You must heed the counsel of the wise men of the court.
      What Ts'ao Ts'ao said, we shall hear in the next chapter.
    type: narration
    emotion:
    - serious
    - urgent
    - formal
    status: initial
    context: 'chapter 2 / chapter 2. Paragraph 6 of the chapter, aligned by index
      and verified (6 of 28 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 少頃，何進入白后，欲誅中涓。何后曰：「中官統領禁省，漢家故事。先帝新棄天
      下，爾欲誅殺舊臣，非重宗廟也。」進本是沒決斷之人，聽太后言，唯唯而出。袁紹迎 問曰：「大事若何？」進曰：…'