header:
  namespace: clarion
  clan: sanguo-brewitt-taylor
  source-language: zh-CN
  target-language: en-US
groups:
- path: chapter-1
  entries:
  - id: chapter-1-001
    source: 建寧二年四月望日，帝御溫德殿。方陞座，殿角狂風驟起，只見一條大青蛇，從梁 上飛將下來，蟠於椅上。帝驚倒，左右急救入宮，百官俱奔避。須臾，蛇不見了。忽然
      大雷大雨，加以冰雹，落到半夜方止，壞卻房屋無數。建寧四年二月，洛陽地震；又海 水泛溢，沿海居民，盡被大浪捲入海中。光和元年，雌雞化雄。六月朔，黑氣十餘丈，
      飛入溫德殿中。秋七月，有虹見於玉堂；五原山岸，盡皆崩裂。種種不祥，非止一端。
    target: >-
      In the second year of Chien Ning, on the full moon day of the fourth month, the Emperor went to the Wen Te Hall. Just as he ascended the throne, a wild wind suddenly rose from a corner of the hall, and a great green snake flew down from the roof and coiled upon the throne. The Emperor fell down in fright. His attendants hurried him into the palace, and all the officials fled in panic. In a moment the snake was gone. Suddenly there came great thunder and rain, together with hail, which did not stop until midnight, destroying countless houses. In the second month of the fourth year of Chien Ning, there was an earthquake in Lo-yang; also the sea overflowed, and the residents along the coast were all swept into the sea by the great waves. In the first year of Kuang Ho, hens turned into roosters. On the first day of the sixth month, a black vapor more than ten chang long flew into the Wen Te Hall. In the autumn, in the seventh month, a rainbow appeared in the Jade Hall; the cliffs of Wu Yuan Mountain all collapsed. These various ominous signs were not confined to one place.
  - id: chapter-1-002
    source: 帝下詔問群臣以災異之由，議郎蔡邕上疏，以為蜺墮雞化，乃婦寺干政之所致，言 頗切直。帝覽奏歎息，因起更衣。曹節在後竊視，悉宣告左右。遂以他事陷邕於罪，放
      歸田里。後張讓，趙忠，封諝，段珪，曹節，候覽，蹇碩，程曠，夏惲，郭勝十人朋比 為奸，號為「十常侍」。帝尊信張讓，呼為「阿父」，朝政日非，以致天下人心思亂，
      盜賊蜂起。
    target: >-
      The Emperor issued an edict asking the assembled ministers the cause of these calamities and prodigies. The Court Counselor Ts'ai Yung submitted a memorial, saying that the fall of the rainbow and the changing of hens into roosters were caused by women and eunuchs interfering in government, and his words were quite blunt and direct. The Emperor sighed as he read the memorial, and then rose to change his clothes. Ts'ao Chieh, who was behind him, peered at it secretly and told all to those around him. Then he used other matters to frame Ts'ai Yung for a crime and sent him back to the countryside. Later, Chang Jang, Chao Chung, Feng Hsü, Tuan Kuei, Ts'ao Chieh, Hou Lan, Chien Shih, Ch'eng K'uang, Hsia Yün, and Kuo Sheng—ten men—banded together for evil and were called the "Ten Regular Attendants." The Emperor respected and trusted Chang Jang, calling him "Foster Father," and the government grew worse day by day, so that the hearts of the people turned to disorder, and robbers rose like swarms of bees.
  - id: chapter-1-003
    source: 時鉅鹿郡有兄弟三人：一名張角，一名張寶，一名張梁。那張角本是個不第秀才。 因入山採藥，遇一老人，碧眼童顏，手執藜杖，喚角至一洞中，以天書三卷授之，曰：
      「此名太平要術。汝得之，當代天宣化，普救世人；若萌異心，必獲惡報。」角拜問姓 名。老人曰：「吾乃南華老仙也。」言訖，化陣清風而去。
    target: >-
      At that time, in Chü-lu Commandery, there were three brothers: one named Chang Chiao, one named Chang Pao, and one named Chang Liang. Chang Chiao was originally a scholar who had failed the examinations. Because he went into the mountains to gather herbs, he met an old man with blue eyes and a youthful face, holding a staff of wild pear wood. The old man called Chiao into a cave and gave him three volumes of a heavenly book, saying, "This is called the Essential Arts of Great Peace. When you have obtained it, you should proclaim the transformation on behalf of Heaven and save all people. If you conceive evil intentions, you will surely receive evil retribution." Chiao bowed and asked his name. The old man said, "I am the Old Immortal of Nan Hua." Having spoken, he turned into a gust of clear wind and departed.
  - id: chapter-1-004
    source: 張角聞知事露，星夜舉兵，自稱天公將軍，─張寶稱地公將軍，張梁稱人公將軍─ 。申言於眾曰：「今漢運將終，大聖人出﹔汝等皆宜順從天意，以槳太平。」四方百姓
      ，裹黃巾從張角反者，四五十萬。賊勢浩大，官軍望風而靡。何進奏帝火速降詔，令各 處備禦，討賊立功；一面遣中郎將盧植，皇甫嵩，朱雋，各引精兵，分三路討之。
    target: >-
      When Chang Chiao learned that the matter had been discovered, he raised troops overnight and styled himself General of Heaven. Chang Pao styled himself General of Earth, and Chang Liang styled himself General of Man. He proclaimed to the masses, "Now the fortune of Han is about to end, and a great sage has appeared. You should all obey the will of Heaven and together bring about Great Peace." The common people from all quarters wrapped yellow cloth around their heads and followed Chang Chiao in rebellion, to the number of four or five hundred thousand. The rebel force was vast, and the government troops fled at the sight of them. Ho Chin memorialized the Emperor to issue an edict quickly, ordering all places to prepare defenses and to win merit by suppressing the rebels. At the same time, he sent the Imperial Corps Commanders Lu Chih, Huangfu Sung, and Chu Chün, each leading picked troops, to attack along three routes.
  - id: chapter-1-005
    source: 且說張角一軍，前犯幽州界分。幽州太守劉焉，乃江夏竟陵人氏，漢魯恭王之後也 ；當時聞得賊兵將至，召校尉鄒靖計議。靖曰：「賊兵眾，我兵寡，明公宜作速招軍應
      敵。」劉焉然其說，隨即出榜招募義兵。榜文行到涿縣，乃引出涿縣中一個英雄。
    target: >-
      Let us now speak of one of Chang Chiao's armies, which first invaded the borders of Yu-chou. The Governor of Yu-chou, Liu Yen, was a native of Ching-ling in Chiang-hsia and a descendant of Prince Kung of Lu of the Han. When he heard that the rebel troops were about to arrive, he summoned the Commandant Tsou Ching to discuss plans. Ching said, "The rebels are many and our troops are few. My lord should quickly recruit soldiers to meet the enemy." Liu Yen approved his advice and immediately issued a proclamation to recruit volunteer troops. The proclamation reached Cho County, and thereby brought forth a hero from within Cho County.
  - id: chapter-1-006
    source: 那人不甚好讀書；性寬和，寡言語，喜怒不形於色；素有大志，專好結交天下豪傑 ；生得身長七尺五寸，兩耳垂肩，雙手過膝，目能自顧其耳，面如冠玉，脣若塗脂；中
      山靖王劉勝之後，漢景帝閣下玄孫﹔姓劉，名備，字玄德。昔劉勝之子劉貞，漢武時封 涿鹿亭侯，後坐酬金失侯，因此遺這一枝在涿縣。玄德祖劉雄，父劉弘。弘曾舉孝廉，
      亦嘗作吏，早喪。玄德幼孤，事母至孝；家貧，販屨織蓆為業。家住本縣樓桑村。其家 之東南，有一大桑樹，高五丈餘，遙望之，童童如車蓋。相者云：「此家必出貴人。」
    target: >-
      This man was not very fond of reading. He was broad-minded and gentle, sparing of words, and did not show joy or anger on his face. He had always cherished great ambitions and loved to make friends with heroes throughout the land. He was seven feet five inches tall, with ears that hung to his shoulders and hands that reached past his knees. His eyes could turn to see his own ears. His face was like polished jade, and his lips as if painted with vermilion. He was a descendant of Liu Sheng, Prince Ching of Chung-shan, and a great-great-grandson of Emperor Ching of Han. His surname was Liu, his given name Pei, and his style Hsuan-te. Formerly, Liu Chen, son of Liu Sheng, had been enfeoffed as Marquis of Cho-lu Pavilion in the time of Emperor Wu of Han, but later he lost his marquisate because of a case involving tribute gold. Thus this branch of the family was left in Cho County. Hsuan-te's grandfather was Liu Hsiung, and his father Liu Hung. Liu Hung had been recommended as Filial and Incorrupt and had also served as an official, but he died early. Hsuan-te was orphaned young and served his mother with utmost filial piety. The family was poor, and he made a living by selling straw sandals and weaving mats. His home was in Lou-sang Village of the county. To the southeast of his house stood a great mulberry tree, over five chang tall. Seen from afar, it was luxuriant like a carriage canopy. A physiognomist said, "This family is sure to produce a noble person."
  - id: chapter-1-007
    source: 飛曰：「吾莊後有一桃園，花開正盛；明日當於園中祭告天地，我三人結為兄弟， 協力同心，然後可圖大事。」玄德、雲長、齊聲應曰：「如此甚好。」次日，於桃園中
      ，備下烏牛白馬祭禮等項，三人焚香，再拜而說誓曰：「念劉備、關羽、張飛，雖然異 姓，既結為兄弟，則同心協力，救困扶危；上報國家，下安黎庶；不求同年同月同日生
      ，但願同年同月同日死。皇天后土，實鑒此心。背義忘恩，天人共戮。」誓畢，拜玄德 為兄，關羽次之，張飛為弟。祭罷天地，復宰牛設酒，聚鄉中勇士，得三百餘人，就桃
      園中痛飲一醉。來日收拾軍器，但恨無馬匹可乘。
    target: >-
      Fei said, "Behind my farm there is a peach garden, and the flowers are in full bloom. Tomorrow we should make sacrifice to Heaven and Earth in the garden, and the three of us will become brothers, joining strength and heart, and then we can plan great things." Hsuan-te and Yun-chang replied in one voice, "That would be excellent." The next day, in the peach garden, they prepared a black ox, a white horse, and other sacrificial offerings. The three burned incense, bowed twice, and made this oath: "We, Liu Pei, Kuan Yu, and Chang Fei, though of different surnames, have now become brothers. We will unite our hearts and strength to rescue the distressed and support those in peril. Above, we will repay the state; below, we will bring peace to the people. We do not seek to be born in the same year, month, and day, but we ask to die in the same year, month, and day. August Heaven and Earth, truly mirror this heart. If we betray righteousness and forget gratitude, may Heaven and man alike put us to death." After the oath, they bowed to Hsuan-te as the elder brother, Kuan Yu next, and Chang Fei as the younger brother. When the sacrifice to Heaven and Earth was finished, they slaughtered the ox and set out wine, gathered the brave men of the village, and obtained more than three hundred men. They drank their fill in the peach garden. The next day they prepared weapons, but regretted only that they had no horses to ride.
  - id: chapter-1-008
    source: 英雄發穎在今朝，一試矛兮一試刀。初出便將威力展，三分好把姓名標。
    target: >-
      The hero's talent shines forth today; once he tries the spear, once he tries the sword. At his first appearance he displays his might; well may he mark his name in the Three-Way Division.
  - id: chapter-1-009
    source: 次日，玄德與鄒靖，引軍鼓譟而進。賊眾迎戰，玄德引軍便退。賊眾乘勢追趕，方 過山嶺，玄德軍中一齊鳴金，左右兩軍齊出，玄德麾軍回身復殺。三路夾攻，賊眾大潰
      。直趕至青州城下，太守龔景亦率民兵出城助戰。賊勢大敗，剿戮極多，遂解青州之圍 。後人有詩讚玄德曰：
    target: >-
      The next day, Hsuan-te and Tsou Ching led their troops forward with drums and shouts. The rebel host came out to fight, and Hsuan-te led his troops in retreat. The rebels took advantage of the situation and pursued. Just as they passed the mountain ridge, the gongs sounded in Hsuan-te's army, and the two wings came out together. Hsuan-te wheeled his troops around and attacked again. Caught in a three-way pincer, the rebels were utterly routed. They were pursued all the way to the walls of Ch'ing-chou. The Governor Kung Ching also led out the local militia to assist in the battle. The rebels suffered a great defeat; many were slain, and the siege of Ch'ing-chou was lifted. Later generations had a poem praising Hsuan-te:
  - id: chapter-1-010
    source: 運籌決算有神功，二虎還須遜一龍。初出便能垂偉績，自應分鼎在孤窮。
    target: >-
      In planning and deciding, he had godlike skill; even two tigers must yield to one dragon. At his first appearance he achieved great merit; surely he was destined to share the tripod despite his lonely poverty.
  - id: chapter-1-011
    source: 龔景犒軍畢，鄒靖欲回。玄德曰：「近聞中郎將盧植與賊首張角戰於廣宗，備昔曾 師事盧植，欲往助之。」於是鄒靖引軍自回，玄德與關、張引本部五百人投廣宗來。至
      盧植軍中，入帳施禮，具道來意。盧植大喜，留在帳前聽調。
    target: >-
      After Kung Ching had rewarded the troops, Tsou Ching wished to return. Hsuan-te said, "I have recently heard that Imperial Corps Commander Lu Chih is fighting the rebel leader Chang Chiao at Kuang-tsung. I once studied under Lu Chih and wish to go and assist him." So Tsou Ching led his troops back, while Hsuan-te, with Kuan and Chang, led his own five hundred men to Kuang-tsung. Arriving at Lu Chih's camp, they entered the tent and paid their respects, explaining their purpose. Lu Chih was delighted and kept them before his tent to await orders.
  - id: chapter-1-012
    source: 時張角賊眾十五萬，植兵五萬，相拒於廣宗，未見勝負。植謂玄德曰：「我今圍賊 在此，賊弟張梁，張寶在潁川，與皇甫嵩、朱雋對壘。汝可引本部人馬，我更助汝一千
      官軍，前去潁川打探消息，約期剿捕。」玄德領命，引軍星夜投潁川來。時皇甫嵩、朱 雋領軍拒賊，賊戰不利，退入長社，依草結營。嵩與雋計曰：「賊依草結營，當用火攻
      之。」遂令軍士，每人束草一把，暗地埋伏。其夜大風忽起。二更以後，一齊縱火，嵩 與雋各引兵攻擊賊寨，火燄張天，賊眾驚慌，馬不及鞍，人不及甲，四散奔走。殺到天
      明，張梁、張寶引敗殘軍士，奪路而走。
    target: >-
      At that time Chang Chiao's rebel host numbered one hundred and fifty thousand, while Lu Chih had fifty thousand troops. They faced each other at Kuang-tsung without either side gaining the advantage. Lu Chih said to Hsuan-te, "I am now besieging the rebels here. The rebel brothers Chang Liang and Chang Pao are at Ying-ch'uan, confronting Huangfu Sung and Chu Chün. You may lead your own troops, and I will additionally give you a thousand government soldiers, to go to Ying-ch'uan and scout the situation and set a date to suppress them." Hsuan-te accepted the order and led his troops by forced night marches to Ying-ch'uan. At that time Huangfu Sung and Chu Chün were leading troops against the rebels. The rebels fought unsuccessfully and retreated into Ch'ang-she, where they made camp relying on the grass. Sung and Chün planned, "The rebels have camped amid the grass; we should attack them with fire." So they ordered the soldiers each to bind a bundle of grass and lie in ambush. That night a great wind suddenly arose. After the second watch, they set fire all at once. Sung and Chün each led troops to attack the rebel camp. The flames reached the sky. The rebels were panicked; horses were not saddled, men were not armored, and they scattered in all directions. The slaughter continued until dawn, when Chang Liang and Chang Pao led the remnants of their defeated troops and fought their way out.
  - id: chapter-1-013
    source: 忽見一彪軍馬，盡打紅旗，當頭來到，截往去路。為首閃出一將，身長七尺，細眼 長髯；官拜騎都尉；沛國譙郡人也：姓曹，名操，字孟德。操父曹嵩，本姓夏侯氏；因
      為中常侍曹騰之養子，故冒姓曹。曹嵩生操，小字阿瞞，一名吉利。操幼時，好游獵， 喜歌舞；有權謀，多機變。操有叔父，見操游蕩無度，嘗怒之，言於曹嵩。嵩責操。操
      忽心生一計：見叔父來，詐倒於地，作中風之狀。叔父驚告嵩，嵩急視之，操故無恙。 嵩曰：「叔言汝中風，今己愈乎？」操曰：「兒自來無此病；因失愛於叔父，故見罔耳
      。」嵩信其言。後叔父但言操過，嵩並不聽。因此，操得恣意放蕩。
    target: >-
      Suddenly a body of troops appeared, all with red banners, coming straight toward them and blocking their way. From the front flashed forth a general, seven feet tall, with narrow eyes and a long beard. He held the office of Cavalry Commandant and was a native of Ch'iao Commandery in the State of P'ei. His surname was Ts'ao, his given name Ts'ao, and his style Meng-te. Ts'ao Ts'ao's father, Ts'ao Sung, was originally of the Hsiahou family; because he became the adopted son of the Regular Attendant Ts'ao T'eng, he assumed the surname Ts'ao. Ts'ao Sung begot Ts'ao Ts'ao, whose childhood name was A-man, and who was also called Chi-li. In his youth, Ts'ao loved hunting and delighted in song and dance. He was resourceful and full of schemes. Ts'ao had an uncle who, seeing that Ts'ao was idle and dissolute without measure, was often angry with him and told Ts'ao Sung. Sung reproved Ts'ao. Ts'ao suddenly conceived a plan. When he saw his uncle coming, he pretended to fall to the ground in a fit of apoplexy. The uncle was alarmed and told Sung. Sung hurried to look at him, but Ts'ao was quite well. Sung said, "Your uncle said you had a stroke; are you now recovered?" Ts'ao said, "I have never had such an illness. It is only because I have lost your uncle's favor that he deceives you." Sung believed his words. Afterward, whenever the uncle spoke of Ts'ao's faults, Sung would not listen. Thus Ts'ao was able to indulge his whims without restraint.
  - id: chapter-1-014
    source: 卻說玄德引關、張來潁川，聽得喊殺之聲，又望見火光燭天，急引兵來時，賊已敗 散。玄德見皇甫嵩，朱雋，其道盧植之意。嵩曰：「張梁、張寶勢窮力乏，必投廣宗去
      依張角。玄德可即星夜往助。」
    target: >-
      Now to return to Hsuan-te. He led Kuan and Chang to Ying-ch'uan and heard the shouts of battle and saw the firelight lighting up the sky. He hurried his troops forward, but by the time he arrived the rebels had already been defeated and scattered. Hsuan-te met Huangfu Sung and Chu Chün and explained Lu Chih's intention. Sung said, "Chang Liang and Chang Pao are at the end of their strength and must flee to Kuang-tsung to join Chang Chiao. Hsuan-te, you should go at once by night to assist."
  - id: chapter-1-015
    source: 玄德領命，遂引兵復回。到得半路，只見一簇軍馬，護送一輛檻車，車中之囚，乃 盧植也。玄德大驚，滾鞍下馬，問其緣故。植曰：「我圍張角，將次可破；因角用妖術
      ，未能即勝。朝廷差黃門左豐前來體探，問我索取賄賂。我答曰：『軍糧尚缺，安有餘 錢奉承天使？』左豐挾恨，回奏朝廷，說我高壘不戰，惰慢軍心；因此朝廷震怒，遣中
      郎將董卓來代將我兵，取我回京問罪。」
    target: >-
      Hsuan-te accepted the order and led his troops back. Halfway there, he saw a group of soldiers escorting a prison cart. The prisoner in the cart was none other than Lu Chih. Hsuan-te was greatly shocked. He slipped from his saddle, dismounted, and asked the reason. Chih said, "I was besieging Chang Chiao and was about to defeat him. But because Chiao used sorcery, I could not win immediately. The court sent the Yellow Gate official Tso Feng to inspect the situation, and he demanded a bribe from me. I answered, 'Military provisions are still lacking; how could I have surplus money to flatter the imperial envoy?' Tso Feng bore a grudge and reported to the court that I had built high ramparts and would not fight, slackening and slowing the morale of the army. Therefore the court was enraged and sent Imperial Corps Commander Tung Cho to take command of my troops in my place and bring me back to the capital for trial."
  - id: chapter-1-016
    source: 三人飛馬引軍而出。張角正殺敗董卓，乘勢趕來，忽遇三人衝殺，角軍大亂，敗走 五十餘里。三人救了董卓回寨。卓問三人現居何職。玄德曰：「白身。」卓甚輕之，不
      為禮。玄德出，張飛大怒曰：「我等親赴血戰，救了這廝，他卻如此無禮﹔若不殺之， 難消我氣！」便要提刀入帳來殺董卓。正是：人情勢利古猶今，誰識英雄是白身？安得
      快人如翼德，盡誅世上負心人！畢竟董卓性命如何，且看下文分解。
    target: >-
      The three men galloped out with their troops. Chang Chiao had just defeated Tung Cho and was pursuing him when he suddenly encountered the three charging in to attack. Chiao's army fell into great disorder and fled more than fifty li. The three rescued Tung Cho and returned to camp. Cho asked the three what offices they held. Hsuan-te said, "We are commoners." Cho greatly slighted them and offered no courtesy. When Hsuan-te went out, Chang Fei flew into a rage and said, "We went personally into bloody battle and saved this fellow, yet he is so rude! If I do not kill him, my anger will never be appeased!" He was about to seize his sword and enter the tent to kill Tung Cho. Truly: Snobbery and self-interest have been the same from ancient times to today; who recognizes a hero who is but a commoner? If only there were a forthright man like I-te to put to death all the ungrateful people in the world! What became of Tung Cho's life? Pray read the next chapter.
- path: chapter-2
  entries:
  - id: chapter-2-001
    source: 中平六年，夏四月，靈帝病篤，召大將軍何進入宮，商議後事。那何進起身屠家； 因妹入宮為貴人，生皇子辯，遂立為皇后，進由是得權重任。帝又寵幸王美人，生皇子
      協。何后嫉妒，鴆殺王美人。皇子協養於董太后宮中。董太后乃靈帝之母，解瀆亭侯劉 萇之妻也。初因桓帝無子，迎立解瀆亭侯之子，是為靈帝。靈帝入繼大統，遂迎養母氏
      於宮中，尊為太后。
    target: >-
      In the sixth year of Chung-p'ing, in the summer, the fourth month, Emperor Ling was gravely ill. He summoned the General-in-Chief Ho Chin into the palace to discuss affairs after his death. Ho Chin had risen from a butcher's family. Because his sister had entered the palace as a Honored Lady and had borne the imperial prince Pien, she was made Empress, and Ho Chin thereby gained power and high office. The Emperor also favored Lady Wang, who bore the imperial prince Hsieh. Empress Ho was jealous and poisoned Lady Wang. Prince Hsieh was raised in the palace of Empress Dowager Tung. Empress Dowager Tung was the mother of Emperor Ling and the wife of Liu Ch'ang, Marquis of Chieh-tu Pavilion. Originally, because Emperor Huan had no son, the son of the Marquis of Chieh-tu Pavilion was brought to the capital and made Emperor Ling. When Emperor Ling succeeded to the throne, he brought his mother to the palace to be raised there and honored her as Empress Dowager.
  - id: chapter-2-002
    source: 何進聽罷，出謂眾官曰：「蹇碩設謀害我，可族滅其家。其餘不必妄加殘害。」袁 紹曰：「若不斬草除根，必為喪身之本。」進曰：「吾意已決，汝勿多言。」眾官皆退
      。
    target: >-
      When Ho Chin had heard it all, he went out and said to the assembled officials, "Chien Shih plotted to harm me; his whole clan should be exterminated. The rest need not be wantonly harmed." Yuan Shao said, "If you do not cut the grass and pull out the roots, it will surely become the cause of your ruin." Chin said, "My mind is made up. Say no more." The officials all withdrew.
  - id: chapter-2-003
    source: 次日，太后命何進參錄尚書事，其餘皆封官職。董太后宣張讓等入宮商議曰：「何 進之妹，始初我抬舉他。今日他孩兒即皇帝位，內外臣僚，皆其心腹：威權太重，我將
      如何？」讓奏曰：「娘娘可臨朝，垂簾聽政；封皇子協為王；加國舅董重大官，掌握軍 權；重用臣等：大事可圖矣。」
    target: >-
      The next day, the Empress Dowager ordered Ho Chin to participate in the affairs of the Imperial Secretariat, and the rest were all given official posts. Empress Dowager Tung summoned Chang Jang and the others into the palace to discuss, saying, "Ho Chin's sister—I was the one who first raised her up. Now her child has ascended the imperial throne, and all the officials inside and outside are her confidants. Her power is too great. What shall I do?" Jang replied, "Your Majesty may hold court and listen to affairs from behind the curtain. Enfeoff Prince Hsieh as a prince. Give the Imperial Uncle Tung Chung a high office and let him hold military power. Put us, your servants, in important positions. Then great matters can be planned."
  - id: chapter-2-004
    source: 董太后大喜。次日設朝，董太后降旨，封皇子協為陳留王，董重為驃騎將軍，張讓 等共預朝政。何太后見董太后專權，於宮中設一宴，請董太后赴席。酒至半酣，何太后
      起身捧盃再拜曰：「我等皆婦人也，參預朝政，非其所宜。昔呂后因握重權，宗族千口 皆被戮。今我等宜深居九重；朝廷大事，任大臣元老自行商議，此國家之幸也。願垂聽
      焉。」董太后大怒曰：「汝鴆死王美人，設心嫉妒。今倚汝子為君，與汝兄何進之勢， 輒敢亂言！吾敕驃騎斷汝兄首，如反掌耳！」何后亦怒曰：「吾以好言相勸，何反怒耶
      ？」董后曰：「汝家屠沽小輩，有何見識！」
    target: >-
      Empress Dowager Tung was delighted. The next day, when court was held, she issued an edict enfeoffing Prince Hsieh as Prince of Ch'en-liu, Tung Chung as General of Agile Cavalry, and Chang Jang and others to participate in the government. Empress Ho, seeing that Empress Dowager Tung monopolized power, held a banquet in the palace and invited Empress Dowager Tung to attend. When the wine had gone halfway to their heads, Empress Ho rose, raised her cup, bowed twice, and said, "We are both women, and it is not fitting for us to participate in court affairs. Formerly, because Empress Lü held great power, a thousand members of her clan were put to death. Now we should dwell deeply within the nine-fold palace. Let the great ministers and elders discuss the affairs of the court themselves. This would be a blessing to the state. I hope you will graciously listen." Empress Dowager Tung flew into a rage and said, "You poisoned Lady Wang to death; your heart is full of jealousy. Now, relying on your son being emperor and on your brother Ho Chin's power, you dare to speak wildly! I shall order the General of Agile Cavalry to cut off your brother's head as easily as turning over my hand!" Empress Ho also angrily said, "I advised you with kind words; why are you angry instead?" Empress Tung said, "Your family are but lowly butchers and wine-sellers; what understanding could you have?"
  - id: chapter-2-005
    source: 少頃，何進入白后，欲誅中涓。何后曰：「中官統領禁省，漢家故事。先帝新棄天 下，爾欲誅殺舊臣，非重宗廟也。」進本是沒決斷之人，聽太后言，唯唯而出。袁紹迎
      問曰：「大事若何？」進曰：「太后不允，如之奈何？」紹曰：「可召四方英雄人士， 勒兵來京，盡誅閹豎。此時事急，不容太后不從。」進曰：「此計大妙！」便發檄至各
      鎮，召赴京師。
    target: >-
      After a while, Ho Chin went in and told the Empress, wishing to put the eunuchs to death. Empress Ho said, "The eunuchs have charge of the imperial palace; this is the established practice of the Han house. The late Emperor has just departed the world, and you wish to kill his old servants—this is not to honor the ancestral temple." Chin was by nature an indecisive man. Hearing the Empress Dowager's words, he assented and went out. Yuan Shao met him and asked, "How goes the great matter?" Chin said, "The Empress Dowager will not permit it. What can be done?" Shao said, "You may summon heroes and men of valor from all quarters to bring troops to the capital and put all the eunuchs to death. The situation is urgent now, and the Empress Dowager will not be able to refuse." Chin said, "This plan is excellent!" He immediately sent proclamations to the various garrison towns, summoning them to the capital.
  - id: chapter-2-006
    source: 主簿陳琳曰：「不可！俗云：『掩目而捕燕雀』，是自欺也。微物尚不可欺以得志 ，況國家大事乎？今將軍仗皇威，掌兵要，龍驤虎步，高下在心：若欲誅宦官，如鼓洪
      爐燎毛髮耳。但當速發，行權立斷，則天人順之﹔卻反外檄大臣，臨犯京闕，英雄聚會 ，各懷一心：所謂倒持干戈，授人以柄，功必一成，反生亂矣。」何進笑曰：「此懦夫
      之見也！」傍邊一人鼓掌大笑曰：「此事易如反掌，何必多議！」視之，乃曹操也。正 是：欲除君側宵人亂，須聽朝中智士謀。不知曹操說出甚話來，且聽下文分解。
    target: >-
      The Registrar Ch'en Lin said, "That will not do! As the saying goes, 'To catch swallows and sparrows with your eyes covered' is to deceive yourself. Even small creatures cannot be caught by deceit and made to yield, let alone the great affairs of state! Now, General, you rely on imperial authority and hold the military power. You move like a dragon and stride like a tiger; high and low are in your heart. If you wish to execute the eunuchs, it is like blowing up a great furnace to singe a hair. You should only act quickly, exercise authority, and decide at once; then Heaven and man will follow you. But instead you send proclamations to outside ministers, causing them to approach and threaten the capital. Heroes will gather, each with his own mind. This is what is called holding the spear reversed and giving others the handle. The deed is sure to succeed, but disorder will arise instead." Ho Chin laughed and said, "That is the view of a coward!" A man beside him clapped his hands and laughed loudly, saying, "This matter is as easy as turning over your hand; why dispute so much?" They looked at him—it was Ts'ao Ts'ao. Truly: To remove the petty men who cause disorder at the ruler's side, one must listen to the counsel of a wise man at court. No one knew what Ts'ao Ts'ao would say; pray hear the next chapter.