/* cliff:source: 建寧二年四月望日，帝御溫德殿。方陞座，殿角狂風驟起，只見一條大青蛇，從梁 上飛將下來，蟠於椅上。帝驚倒，左右急救入宮，百官俱奔避。須臾，蛇不見了。忽然 大雷大雨，加以冰雹，落到半夜方止，壞卻房屋無數。建寧四年二月，洛陽地震；又海 水泛溢，沿海居民，盡被大浪捲入海中。光和元年，雌雞化雄。六月朔，黑氣十餘丈， 飛入溫德殿中。秋七月，有虹見於玉堂；五原山岸，盡皆崩裂。種種不祥，非止一端。 */
"chapter-1-001" = "On the full-moon day of the fourth month of the second year of Jian Ning, the Emperor held court in the Wende Hall. No sooner had he ascended the throne than a fierce wind suddenly rose from a corner of the hall, and a great green serpent flew down from the beam and coiled upon the seat. The Emperor fell over in fright; his attendants hurried him into the palace, and all the assembled officials fled. In a moment the serpent had vanished. Suddenly came great thunder and rain, together with hail, which did not cease until midnight and destroyed countless houses. In the second month of the fourth year of Jian Ning there was an earthquake at Luoyang; the sea overflowed, and the dwellers along the coast were all swept by the great waves into the sea. In the first year of Guang He, hens turned into roosters. On the first day of the sixth month, a black vapor more than ten zhang long flew into the Wende Hall. In the seventh month of autumn, a rainbow appeared over the Jade Hall; the cliffs of Mount Wuyuan all crumbled. Such ominous signs were not confined to a single kind.";
/* cliff:source: 帝下詔問群臣以災異之由，議郎蔡邕上疏，以為蜺墮雞化，乃婦寺干政之所致，言 頗切直。帝覽奏歎息，因起更衣。曹節在後竊視，悉宣告左右。遂以他事陷邕於罪，放 歸田里。後張讓，趙忠，封諝，段珪，曹節，候覽，蹇碩，程曠，夏惲，郭勝十人朋比 為奸，號為「十常侍」。帝尊信張讓，呼為「阿父」，朝政日非，以致天下人心思亂， 盜賊蜂起。 */
"chapter-1-002" = "The Emperor issued an edict asking his ministers for the cause of these calamities and portents. The Gentleman Consultant Cai Yong submitted a memorial, holding that the falling of the rainbow and the transformation of hens were brought about by the meddling of women and eunuchs in the government; his words were blunt and direct. The Emperor read the memorial and sighed, then rose to change his clothes. Cao Jie was secretly watching from behind and reported all of it to those about him. Thereupon he framed Cai Yong on other charges and had him sent back to his fields. Later, ten men—Zhang Rang, Zhao Zhong, Feng Xu, Duan Gui, Cao Jie, Hou Lan, Jian Shuo, Cheng Kuang, Xia Yun, and Guo Sheng—banded together in villainy and were known as the Ten Regular Attendants. The Emperor honored and trusted Zhang Rang, calling him Foster Father, and the government grew worse day by day, until the hearts of the people turned toward chaos and bandits rose like swarms of bees.";
/* cliff:source: 時鉅鹿郡有兄弟三人：一名張角，一名張寶，一名張梁。那張角本是個不第秀才。 因入山採藥，遇一老人，碧眼童顏，手執藜杖，喚角至一洞中，以天書三卷授之，曰： 「此名太平要術。汝得之，當代天宣化，普救世人；若萌異心，必獲惡報。」角拜問姓 名。老人曰：「吾乃南華老仙也。」言訖，化陣清風而去。 */
"chapter-1-003" = "At that time there were three brothers in the district of Julu: one named Zhang Jiao, one Zhang Bao, and one Zhang Liang. This Zhang Jiao was a scholar who had failed to pass the examinations. One day, having gone into the mountains to gather herbs, he met an old man with blue eyes and a youthful face, holding a staff of wild pear wood. The old man called Jiao into a cave and gave him three volumes of a heavenly book, saying, This is called The Essential Art of Great Peace. If you master it, you shall proclaim the transforming power of Heaven in Heaven's stead and bring salvation to all the world. But if you harbor treacherous thoughts, you will surely meet with evil retribution. Jiao bowed and asked his name. The old man said, I am the Old Immortal of Nanhua. With these words he turned into a gust of clear wind and was gone.";
/* cliff:source: 張角聞知事露，星夜舉兵，自稱天公將軍，─張寶稱地公將軍，張梁稱人公將軍─ 。申言於眾曰：「今漢運將終，大聖人出﹔汝等皆宜順從天意，以槳太平。」四方百姓 ，裹黃巾從張角反者，四五十萬。賊勢浩大，官軍望風而靡。何進奏帝火速降詔，令各 處備禦，討賊立功；一面遣中郎將盧植，皇甫嵩，朱雋，各引精兵，分三路討之。 */
"chapter-1-004" = "When Zhang Jiao learned that his plans had been discovered, he raised troops by night and styled himself General of Heaven; Zhang Bao called himself General of Earth, and Zhang Liang General of Man. Proclaiming to the multitude, he said, The fortune of Han is now at its end, and a great sage has appeared. You should all obey the will of Heaven and enjoy the Great Peace. From every quarter the common folk, binding yellow cloths about their heads, rose in rebellion with Zhang Jiao—some four or five hundred thousand. The rebel host was mighty, and the imperial troops melted away before them. He Jin memorialized the Emperor to issue an urgent edict ordering all places to prepare their defenses, put down the rebels, and win merit; and at the same time he dispatched the commandants Lu Zhi, Huangfu Song, and Zhu Jun, each leading picked troops, to attack in three columns.";
/* cliff:source: 且說張角一軍，前犯幽州界分。幽州太守劉焉，乃江夏竟陵人氏，漢魯恭王之後也 ；當時聞得賊兵將至，召校尉鄒靖計議。靖曰：「賊兵眾，我兵寡，明公宜作速招軍應 敵。」劉焉然其說，隨即出榜招募義兵。榜文行到涿縣，乃引出涿縣中一個英雄。 */
"chapter-1-005" = "Let us now speak of a division of Zhang Jiao's army that advanced to invade the borders of Youzhou. The governor of Youzhou, Liu Yan, was a native of Jingling in Jiangxia and a descendant of Prince Gong of Lu of the Han. When he heard that the rebel troops were coming, he summoned the commandant Zou Jing to take counsel. Jing said, The rebels are many and our troops few. My lord should speedily raise levies to meet the enemy. Liu Yan approved his words and at once issued a proclamation calling for the muster of volunteer troops. The proclamation reached the county of Zhuo, and thereby brought forth a hero of that place.";
/* cliff:source: 那人不甚好讀書；性寬和，寡言語，喜怒不形於色；素有大志，專好結交天下豪傑 ；生得身長七尺五寸，兩耳垂肩，雙手過膝，目能自顧其耳，面如冠玉，脣若塗脂；中 山靖王劉勝之後，漢景帝閣下玄孫﹔姓劉，名備，字玄德。昔劉勝之子劉貞，漢武時封 涿鹿亭侯，後坐酬金失侯，因此遺這一枝在涿縣。玄德祖劉雄，父劉弘。弘曾舉孝廉， 亦嘗作吏，早喪。玄德幼孤，事母至孝；家貧，販屨織蓆為業。家住本縣樓桑村。其家 之東南，有一大桑樹，高五丈餘，遙望之，童童如車蓋。相者云：「此家必出貴人。」 */
"chapter-1-006" = "This man was not much given to reading books; he was broad and gentle in nature, sparing of speech, and showed neither joy nor anger in his countenance. He had long cherished great ambitions and loved above all to make friends with the heroes of the world. He stood seven chi and five cun tall; his ears hung down to his shoulders, and his hands reached below his knees. His eyes could turn to behold his own ears. His face was like a crown of jade and his lips as though painted with vermilion. He was a descendant of Liu Sheng, Prince Jing of Zhongshan, and a fifth-generation grandson of Emperor Jing of Han. His surname was Liu, his name Bei, his style Xuande. In former days, Liu Zhen, son of Liu Sheng, had been enfeoffed as Marquis of Zhuolu Pavilion in the reign of Emperor Wu, but was afterward stripped of his rank over the tribute of gold, and thus this branch of the family was left in the county of Zhuo. Xuande's grandfather was Liu Xiong, and his father Liu Hong. Hong had been recommended as filial and incorrupt and had also served as an official, but he died early. Xuande, orphaned young, served his mother with utmost filial piety; the family was poor, and he took up the trade of selling straw sandals and weaving mats. His home was in the village of Lou Sang in his native county. To the southeast of his house stood a great mulberry tree more than five zhang tall; seen from afar, it spread lush and full like a carriage canopy. A physiognomist said, This house is sure to produce a man of honor.";
/* cliff:source: 飛曰：「吾莊後有一桃園，花開正盛；明日當於園中祭告天地，我三人結為兄弟， 協力同心，然後可圖大事。」玄德、雲長、齊聲應曰：「如此甚好。」次日，於桃園中 ，備下烏牛白馬祭禮等項，三人焚香，再拜而說誓曰：「念劉備、關羽、張飛，雖然異 姓，既結為兄弟，則同心協力，救困扶危；上報國家，下安黎庶；不求同年同月同日生 ，但願同年同月同日死。皇天后土，實鑒此心。背義忘恩，天人共戮。」誓畢，拜玄德 為兄，關羽次之，張飛為弟。祭罷天地，復宰牛設酒，聚鄉中勇士，得三百餘人，就桃 園中痛飲一醉。來日收拾軍器，但恨無馬匹可乘。 */
"chapter-1-007" = "Fei said, Behind my farm there is a peach garden whose flowers are now in fullest bloom. Tomorrow let us go into the garden and sacrifice to Heaven and Earth, and the three of us shall become sworn brothers, joining our strength and hearts as one; only then may we plan great deeds. Xuande and Yunchang answered with one voice, So be it. On the following day, in the peach garden, they set out a black ox, a white horse, and other offerings for the sacrifice. The three burned incense and bowed twice, and spoke their oath: Thinking on Liu Bei, Guan Yu, and Zhang Fei, though of different surnames, now that we are joined as brothers, we shall unite our strength and hearts to rescue the distressed and succor the endangered; above, to repay the state; below, to bring peace to the common folk; we do not seek to be born in the same year, the same month, and the same day, but we ask only to die in the same year, the same month, and the same day. To the August Heaven and the Earth below, we truly lay open our hearts. Should we betray righteousness or forget gratitude, may Heaven and man alike put us to death. When the oath was done, Xuande was made the elder brother, Guan Yu next, and Zhang Fei the youngest. Having sacrificed to Heaven and Earth, they slew the ox and set out wine, gathered the brave men of the village, and got more than three hundred men, with whom they drank deep in the peach garden. The next day they prepared weapons of war, but lamented only that they had no horses to ride.";
/* cliff:source: 英雄發穎在今朝，一試矛兮一試刀。初出便將威力展，三分好把姓名標。 */
"chapter-1-008" = "The hero's talent bursts forth this very day; he tries his spear, he tries his blade. At his first appearing he displays his might, and well may mark his name in the Threefold Realm.";
/* cliff:source: 次日，玄德與鄒靖，引軍鼓譟而進。賊眾迎戰，玄德引軍便退。賊眾乘勢追趕，方 過山嶺，玄德軍中一齊鳴金，左右兩軍齊出，玄德麾軍回身復殺。三路夾攻，賊眾大潰 。直趕至青州城下，太守龔景亦率民兵出城助戰。賊勢大敗，剿戮極多，遂解青州之圍 。後人有詩讚玄德曰： */
"chapter-1-009" = "The next day Xuande and Zou Jing advanced with drums beating and men shouting. The rebels came out to give battle, and Xuande led his troops in retreat. The rebels pursued with all their force, but no sooner had they crossed the ridge than the gongs sounded all at once in Xuande's army, the two forces on either flank came out together, and Xuande wheeled his men about and charged back. Attacked on three sides, the rebels were utterly routed. They were chased all the way to the walls of Qingzhou, where the governor Gong Jing also led the militia out of the city to join the fight. The rebels were badly beaten, great numbers were slain, and so the siege of Qingzhou was lifted. Later men wrote a poem in praise of Xuande, saying:";
/* cliff:source: 運籌決算有神功，二虎還須遜一龍。初出便能垂偉績，自應分鼎在孤窮。 */
"chapter-1-010" = "In devising plans and reckoning odds he wrought with godlike skill; two tigers must still yield to a single dragon. At his first appearing he achieved great merit; surely he was fated to share the tripod, though poor and alone.";
/* cliff:source: 龔景犒軍畢，鄒靖欲回。玄德曰：「近聞中郎將盧植與賊首張角戰於廣宗，備昔曾 師事盧植，欲往助之。」於是鄒靖引軍自回，玄德與關、張引本部五百人投廣宗來。至 盧植軍中，入帳施禮，具道來意。盧植大喜，留在帳前聽調。 */
"chapter-1-011" = "After Gong Jing had feasted the troops, Zou Jing wished to return. Xuande said, I have lately heard that the commandant Lu Zhi is fighting the rebel leader Zhang Jiao at Guangzong. I once studied under Lu Zhi and wish to go and aid him. Thereupon Zou Jing led his troops back on his own, while Xuande, with Guan and Zhang, took his own five hundred men and set out for Guangzong. Arriving in Lu Zhi's camp, he entered the tent, made his salute, and fully explained his purpose. Lu Zhi was delighted and kept him before the tent to await orders.";
/* cliff:source: 時張角賊眾十五萬，植兵五萬，相拒於廣宗，未見勝負。植謂玄德曰：「我今圍賊 在此，賊弟張梁，張寶在潁川，與皇甫嵩、朱雋對壘。汝可引本部人馬，我更助汝一千 官軍，前去潁川打探消息，約期剿捕。」玄德領命，引軍星夜投潁川來。時皇甫嵩、朱 雋領軍拒賊，賊戰不利，退入長社，依草結營。嵩與雋計曰：「賊依草結營，當用火攻 之。」遂令軍士，每人束草一把，暗地埋伏。其夜大風忽起。二更以後，一齊縱火，嵩 與雋各引兵攻擊賊寨，火燄張天，賊眾驚慌，馬不及鞍，人不及甲，四散奔走。殺到天 明，張梁、張寶引敗殘軍士，奪路而走。 */
"chapter-1-012" = "At that time Zhang Jiao's rebel host numbered one hundred and fifty thousand, while Lu Zhi had fifty thousand men, and they faced each other at Guangzong without either gaining the advantage. Lu Zhi said to Xuande, I am now besieging the rebels here, while the rebel brothers Zhang Liang and Zhang Bao are at Yingchuan matched against Huangfu Song and Zhu Jun. You may take your own troops, and I will add a thousand government soldiers, and go to Yingchuan to scout out the situation and fix a time for their capture. Xuande accepted the order and led his troops by forced night marches toward Yingchuan. There Huangfu Song and Zhu Jun were holding the rebels in check; the rebels fought at a disadvantage and retreated into Changshe, where they made camp among the tall grass. Song and Jun took counsel together: The rebels have camped among the grass; we should attack them with fire. So they ordered the soldiers each to bind up a bundle of grass and lie in ambush in secret. That night a great wind suddenly arose. After the second watch they set fire all at once, and Song and Jun each led troops to attack the rebel camp. The flames reached to the sky; the rebels were thrown into panic, unable to saddle their horses or put on their armor, and scattered in all directions. They were slaughtered until dawn, when Zhang Liang and Zhang Bao led the remnants of their broken troops and fled, cutting their way out.";
/* cliff:source: 忽見一彪軍馬，盡打紅旗，當頭來到，截往去路。為首閃出一將，身長七尺，細眼 長髯；官拜騎都尉；沛國譙郡人也：姓曹，名操，字孟德。操父曹嵩，本姓夏侯氏；因 為中常侍曹騰之養子，故冒姓曹。曹嵩生操，小字阿瞞，一名吉利。操幼時，好游獵， 喜歌舞；有權謀，多機變。操有叔父，見操游蕩無度，嘗怒之，言於曹嵩。嵩責操。操 忽心生一計：見叔父來，詐倒於地，作中風之狀。叔父驚告嵩，嵩急視之，操故無恙。 嵩曰：「叔言汝中風，今己愈乎？」操曰：「兒自來無此病；因失愛於叔父，故見罔耳 。」嵩信其言。後叔父但言操過，嵩並不聽。因此，操得恣意放蕩。 */
"chapter-1-013" = "Suddenly a body of troops appeared, all with red banners, coming straight toward them and blocking their road of retreat. From their head flashed forth a general, seven chi tall, with narrow eyes and a long beard; he held the office of Cavalry Commandant and was a man of the Qiao district of the principality of Pei. His surname was Cao, his name Cao, his style Mengde. Cao's father, Cao Song, had originally borne the surname Xiahou, but because he was the adopted son of the Regular Attendant Cao Teng, he assumed the surname Cao. Cao Song begot Cao, whose childhood name was A-Man and who was also called Jili. As a boy, Cao loved hunting and delighted in song and dance; he was full of schemes and given to many shifts. Cao had an uncle who, seeing that Cao roamed about without restraint, was often angry with him and reported him to Cao Song. Song reproved Cao. Then Cao suddenly hit upon a plan: seeing his uncle approach, he pretended to fall to the ground, feigning the manner of one stricken with palsy. His uncle, alarmed, told Song, who hurried to look at him, but Cao was quite well as before. Song said, Your uncle said you had palsy—are you now recovered? Cao replied, I have never had such an illness; it is only that I have lost my uncle's affection, and so he deceives you about me. Song believed his words. Afterward, whenever the uncle spoke of Cao's faults, Song would not listen. And so Cao was able to indulge his wild ways as he pleased.";
/* cliff:source: 卻說玄德引關、張來潁川，聽得喊殺之聲，又望見火光燭天，急引兵來時，賊已敗 散。玄德見皇甫嵩，朱雋，其道盧植之意。嵩曰：「張梁、張寶勢窮力乏，必投廣宗去 依張角。玄德可即星夜往助。」 */
"chapter-1-014" = "Let us now speak of Xuande, who brought Guan and Zhang to Yingchuan. Hearing the cries of battle and seeing the firelight lighting up the sky, he hurried his troops forward, but by the time he arrived the rebels had already been routed and scattered. Xuande met Huangfu Song and Zhu Jun and explained Lu Zhi's purpose. Song said, Zhang Liang and Zhang Bao are at the end of their strength and resources; they will surely flee to Guangzong to join Zhang Jiao. Xuande should hurry there by night to aid him.";
/* cliff:source: 玄德領命，遂引兵復回。到得半路，只見一簇軍馬，護送一輛檻車，車中之囚，乃 盧植也。玄德大驚，滾鞍下馬，問其緣故。植曰：「我圍張角，將次可破；因角用妖術 ，未能即勝。朝廷差黃門左豐前來體探，問我索取賄賂。我答曰：『軍糧尚缺，安有餘 錢奉承天使？』左豐挾恨，回奏朝廷，說我高壘不戰，惰慢軍心；因此朝廷震怒，遣中 郎將董卓來代將我兵，取我回京問罪。」 */
"chapter-1-015" = "Xuande accepted the order and led his troops back. Halfway along the road he saw a body of soldiers escorting a prison cart, and the prisoner in the cart was Lu Zhi. Xuande, greatly shocked, slipped from his saddle and dismounted, and asked the reason. Zhi said, I was besieging Zhang Jiao and was on the point of breaking him, but because Jiao used sorcery I could not win at once. The court sent the Yellow Gate official Zuo Feng to inspect the situation, and he demanded a bribe of me. I answered, Our military provisions are still short—how should I have spare money to curry favor with the Imperial Commissioner? Zuo Feng bore a grudge, and on his return memorialized the court that I had built high ramparts and would not fight, slackening the morale of the army. Therefore the court was enraged and sent the commandant Dong Zhuo to take command of my troops in my place, and to bring me back to the capital for trial.";
/* cliff:source: 三人飛馬引軍而出。張角正殺敗董卓，乘勢趕來，忽遇三人衝殺，角軍大亂，敗走 五十餘里。三人救了董卓回寨。卓問三人現居何職。玄德曰：「白身。」卓甚輕之，不 為禮。玄德出，張飛大怒曰：「我等親赴血戰，救了這廝，他卻如此無禮﹔若不殺之， 難消我氣！」便要提刀入帳來殺董卓。正是：人情勢利古猶今，誰識英雄是白身？安得 快人如翼德，盡誅世上負心人！畢竟董卓性命如何，且看下文分解。 */
"chapter-1-016" = "The three galloped out with their troops. Zhang Jiao, having just defeated Dong Zhuo, was pursuing him in triumph, when suddenly he met the three charging in to the attack. Jiao's army fell into great confusion and fled more than fifty li. The three rescued Dong Zhuo and brought him back to camp. Zhuo asked what offices the three held. Xuande answered, We are commoners. Zhuo greatly slighted them and paid them no courtesy. When Xuande had gone out, Zhang Fei flew into a rage and said, We went ourselves to the bloody battle and saved this wretch, yet he shows us such discourtesy. If I do not kill him, I cannot vent my anger! He was about to seize his sword and enter the tent to kill Dong Zhuo. Truly: The world's ways are as self-seeking now as in old times; who knows a hero when he is but a common man? Oh, for a forthright man like Yide, to slay all the ungrateful men in the world! What became of Dong Zhuo's life after all—pray hear the next chapter explain.";
/* cliff:source: 中平六年，夏四月，靈帝病篤，召大將軍何進入宮，商議後事。那何進起身屠家； 因妹入宮為貴人，生皇子辯，遂立為皇后，進由是得權重任。帝又寵幸王美人，生皇子 協。何后嫉妒，鴆殺王美人。皇子協養於董太后宮中。董太后乃靈帝之母，解瀆亭侯劉 萇之妻也。初因桓帝無子，迎立解瀆亭侯之子，是為靈帝。靈帝入繼大統，遂迎養母氏 於宮中，尊為太后。 */
"chapter-2-001" = "In the sixth year of Zhong Ping, in the fourth month of summer, Emperor Ling fell gravely ill. He summoned the General-in-Chief He Jin into the palace to discuss affairs after his death. This He Jin came of a family of butchers; because his sister entered the palace as a Consort of the Second Rank and bore the prince Bian, she was made Empress, and through her He Jin gained power and high office. The Emperor also favored the Beauty Wang, who bore the prince Xie. The Empress He, in jealousy, poisoned the Beauty Wang. The prince Xie was raised in the palace of the Empress Dowager Dong. The Empress Dowager Dong was the mother of Emperor Ling and the wife of Liu Chang, Marquis of Jiedu Pavilion. In the beginning, because Emperor Huan had no son, the son of the Marquis of Jiedu Pavilion had been brought in and made Emperor, and this was Emperor Ling. When Emperor Ling ascended the throne, he brought his mother into the palace to be cared for and honored her as Empress Dowager.";
/* cliff:source: 何進聽罷，出謂眾官曰：「蹇碩設謀害我，可族滅其家。其餘不必妄加殘害。」袁 紹曰：「若不斬草除根，必為喪身之本。」進曰：「吾意已決，汝勿多言。」眾官皆退 。 */
"chapter-2-002" = "When He Jin had heard all, he went out and said to the assembled officials, Jian Shuo plotted to kill me; his entire clan should be exterminated. The rest need not be wantonly harmed. Yuan Shao said, If you do not cut the grass and pull out the roots, it will surely bring about your ruin. He Jin said, My mind is made up; say no more. And all the officials withdrew.";
/* cliff:source: 次日，太后命何進參錄尚書事，其餘皆封官職。董太后宣張讓等入宮商議曰：「何 進之妹，始初我抬舉他。今日他孩兒即皇帝位，內外臣僚，皆其心腹：威權太重，我將 如何？」讓奏曰：「娘娘可臨朝，垂簾聽政；封皇子協為王；加國舅董重大官，掌握軍 權；重用臣等：大事可圖矣。」 */
"chapter-2-003" = "The next day the Empress Dowager appointed He Jin to superintend the affairs of the Secretariat, and the rest were all given offices. The Empress Dowager Dong summoned Zhang Rang and the others into the palace to take counsel, saying, He Jin's sister—it was I who first advanced her. Now that her son has ascended the imperial throne, and all the officials within and without are her confidants, their power is too great. What shall I do? Zhang Rang replied, Your Highness may hold court and hear the government from behind the curtain. Enfeoff the prince Xie as a prince; grant the Empress Dowager's brother Dong Zhong a high office to hold the military power; and employ us in important posts: then great matters may be contrived.";
/* cliff:source: 董太后大喜。次日設朝，董太后降旨，封皇子協為陳留王，董重為驃騎將軍，張讓 等共預朝政。何太后見董太后專權，於宮中設一宴，請董太后赴席。酒至半酣，何太后 起身捧盃再拜曰：「我等皆婦人也，參預朝政，非其所宜。昔呂后因握重權，宗族千口 皆被戮。今我等宜深居九重；朝廷大事，任大臣元老自行商議，此國家之幸也。願垂聽 焉。」董太后大怒曰：「汝鴆死王美人，設心嫉妒。今倚汝子為君，與汝兄何進之勢， 輒敢亂言！吾敕驃騎斷汝兄首，如反掌耳！」何后亦怒曰：「吾以好言相勸，何反怒耶 ？」董后曰：「汝家屠沽小輩，有何見識！」 */
"chapter-2-004" = "The Empress Dowager Dong was greatly pleased. The next day she held court and issued her decree, enfeoffing the prince Xie as Prince of Chenliu, making Dong Zhong General of Agile Cavalry, and letting Zhang Rang and the others share in the government. The Empress Dowager He, seeing the Empress Dowager Dong monopolize power, gave a banquet in the palace and invited the Empress Dowager Dong to attend. When the wine was half drunk, the Empress Dowager He rose, raised her cup, and bowed twice, saying, We are all women, and it is not fitting for us to meddle in the affairs of state. In former days, because Empress Lü grasped great power, a thousand mouths of her clan were put to death. Now we should dwell deep within the ninefold palace and leave the great affairs of the court to the ministers and elders to deliberate among themselves—this would be the state's good fortune. I pray you take heed of this. The Empress Dowager Dong flew into a rage and said, You poisoned the Beauty Wang, your heart full of jealousy. Now, relying on your son as emperor and on the power of your brother He Jin, you dare to speak such nonsense! If I bid the General of Agile Cavalry cut off your brother's head, it would be as easy as turning my hand! The Empress He retorted in anger, I advised you in good faith—why do you rage instead? The Empress Dowager Dong said, You are a lowbred butcher's kin—what understanding can you have?";
/* cliff:source: 少頃，何進入白后，欲誅中涓。何后曰：「中官統領禁省，漢家故事。先帝新棄天 下，爾欲誅殺舊臣，非重宗廟也。」進本是沒決斷之人，聽太后言，唯唯而出。袁紹迎 問曰：「大事若何？」進曰：「太后不允，如之奈何？」紹曰：「可召四方英雄人士， 勒兵來京，盡誅閹豎。此時事急，不容太后不從。」進曰：「此計大妙！」便發檄至各 鎮，召赴京師。 */
"chapter-2-005" = "A little later He Jin entered and reported to the Empress, wishing to put the palace eunuchs to death. The Empress He said, It has been the custom of the House of Han for the eunuchs to command the palace precincts. The late Emperor has but lately departed this world, and you would put his old servants to death—that is no way to honor the ancestral temple. He Jin was by nature a man who could not make up his mind; hearing the Empress Dowager's words, he assented and went out. Yuan Shao met him and asked, How goes the great matter? He Jin said, The Empress Dowager will not consent—what can be done? Shao said, You may summon the heroes and men of valor from all quarters to march their troops to the capital and put all the eunuchs to death. The situation is urgent now, and the Empress Dowager will have no choice but to agree. He Jin said, That is a most excellent plan! So he sent forth proclamations to the various garrisons, summoning them to the capital.";
/* cliff:source: 主簿陳琳曰：「不可！俗云：『掩目而捕燕雀』，是自欺也。微物尚不可欺以得志 ，況國家大事乎？今將軍仗皇威，掌兵要，龍驤虎步，高下在心：若欲誅宦官，如鼓洪 爐燎毛髮耳。但當速發，行權立斷，則天人順之﹔卻反外檄大臣，臨犯京闕，英雄聚會 ，各懷一心：所謂倒持干戈，授人以柄，功必一成，反生亂矣。」何進笑曰：「此懦夫 之見也！」傍邊一人鼓掌大笑曰：「此事易如反掌，何必多議！」視之，乃曹操也。正 是：欲除君側宵人亂，須聽朝中智士謀。不知曹操說出甚話來，且聽下文分解。 */
"chapter-2-006" = "The Recorder Chen Lin said, You must not! As the saying goes, To cover your eyes and snare a swallow—that is to deceive yourself. Even a small creature cannot be taken by deceit, much less the great affairs of state. Now, General, you rely on the imperial majesty and hold the keys of military power; you prance like a dragon and stride like a tiger, and heights and depths are as you will them. If you wish to put the eunuchs to death, it is like fanning a great furnace to burn a single hair. You have only to act swiftly, exercise your authority, and decide at once, and both Heaven and man will follow you. But instead you send proclamations abroad to great ministers, bringing them in arms before the capital gates, where heroes will gather, each with his own purpose. This is what is called holding your weapons reversed and handing the haft to another; even if the deed succeeds, disorder will surely follow. He Jin laughed and said, That is the view of a coward! Beside him a man clapped his hands and laughed aloud: This matter is as easy as turning over your hand—why deliberate so much? They looked, and it was Cao Cao. Truly: To rid the ruler's side of villains' mischief, one must heed the counsel of the wise at court. What words Cao Cao uttered, pray hear the next chapter explain.";