{
  "chapter-1": {
    "chapter-1-001": "On the full-moon day of the fourth month of the second year of Jian Ning, the Emperor held court in the Wende Hall. Just as he mounted the throne, a wild wind suddenly rose from a corner of the hall, and a great green serpent flew down from the rafters and coiled itself upon the chair. The Emperor fell down in terror; his attendants hurried him into the palace, and all the officials fled and hid themselves. In a moment the serpent was gone. Then suddenly came great thunder and rain, together with hail, which did not cease until midnight and destroyed countless houses. In the second month of the fourth year of Jian Ning, an earthquake shook Luoyang; the sea overflowed its bounds, and all the dwellers along the coast were swept into the sea by great waves. In the first year of Guang He, a hen turned into a rooster. On the first day of the sixth month, a black vapor more than ten zhang in length flew into the Wende Hall. In the seventh month of autumn, a rainbow appeared over the Jade Hall; the cliffs of the Wuyuan Mountains all crumbled and split apart. Such omens of ill fortune were not confined to a single kind.",
    "chapter-1-002": "The Emperor issued a decree asking his ministers the cause of these calamities and portents. Cai Yong, a Gentleman Consultant, submitted a memorial holding that the falling of the rainbow and the transformation of the hen were brought about by women and eunuchs meddling in the government, and his words were somewhat blunt and direct. The Emperor sighed as he read the memorial and rose to change his clothes. Cao Jie, watching secretly from behind, reported it all to those about him. Thereupon he ensnared Cai Yong in guilt on some other charge and sent him back to his fields. Later, Zhang Rang, Zhao Zhong, Feng Xu, Duan Gui, Cao Jie, Hou Lan, Jian Shuo, Cheng Kuang, Xia Yun, and Guo Sheng, ten men in all, banded together in villainy and were known as the Ten Regular Attendants. The Emperor held Zhang Rang in high trust and called him Foster Father, and the government of the court grew daily worse, until the hearts of the people turned to thoughts of rebellion and bandits rose like swarms of bees.",
    "chapter-1-003": "At that time, in the district of Julu, there were three brothers: one named Zhang Jiao, one named Zhang Bao, and one named Zhang Liang. Zhang Jiao had failed to pass the examinations for a scholar's degree. Having gone into the mountains to gather herbs, he met an old man with blue-green eyes and the face of a youth, holding a staff of wild pear wood, who summoned Jiao into a cave and gave him three volumes of a heavenly book, saying: This is called the Essential Art of Great Peace. When you have received it, you are to proclaim the transforming power of Heaven in its stead and save all the people of the world. But if you harbor a disloyal heart, you will surely meet with evil retribution. Jiao bowed and asked his name. The old man said: I am the Old Immortal of Nanhua. Having spoken, he turned into a gust of clear wind and departed.",
    "chapter-1-004": "Zhang Jiao, learning that his plans had been discovered, raised his troops by night and proclaimed himself General of Heaven, Zhang Bao taking the title General of Earth, and Zhang Liang General of Man. He declared to the multitude: The fortune of Han is now at an end, and a great sage has appeared. You should all obey the will of Heaven and enjoy the Great Peace. Throughout the land, common folk bound yellow cloths about their heads and followed Zhang Jiao in revolt, to the number of four or five hundred thousand. The rebel host was vast, and the government troops melted away before it. He Jin memorialized the Emperor to issue a decree at once, ordering every place to prepare its defense and win merit by suppressing the rebels; and he dispatched the Commandants of the Household Cavalry Lu Zhi, Huangfu Song, and Zhu Jun, each leading picked troops, to attack by three routes.",
    "chapter-1-005": "Now let us tell of one of Zhang Jiao's armies, which advanced to invade the borders of Youzhou. The governor of Youzhou, Liu Yan, a native of Jingling in Jiangxia and a descendant of Prince Gong of Lu of the Han, hearing that the rebel troops were about to arrive, summoned the Commandant Zou Jing to take counsel with him. Jing said: The rebels are many and our troops are few; my lord should speedily recruit soldiers to meet the enemy. Liu Yan approved his advice and at once issued a proclamation calling for volunteers. When the proclamation reached the county of Zhuo, it brought forth a hero from within its bounds.",
    "chapter-1-006": "This man was not overfond of reading; by nature he was generous and mild, sparing of words, revealing neither joy nor anger in his face. He had long cherished great ambitions and delighted above all in making friends with the heroes of the land. He stood seven chi five cun tall, with ears that hung to his shoulders and hands that reached below his knees; his eyes could turn back upon his own ears. His face was like a crown of jade, his lips as if painted with vermilion. He was a descendant of Liu Sheng, Prince Jing of Zhongshan, and a great-great-grandson of Emperor Jing of the Han; his surname was Liu, his given name Bei, his style Xuande. Formerly, Liu Zhen, son of Liu Sheng, had been enfeoffed as Marquis of Zhuolu Pavilion in the reign of Emperor Wu, but afterward lost his rank for a fault concerning tribute gold, and thus this branch of the family was left in the county of Zhuo. Xuande's grandfather was Liu Xiong, and his father Liu Hong. Hong had once been recommended as a Filial and Incorrupt candidate and had also served as an official, but he died early. Xuande, orphaned as a child, served his mother with utmost filial devotion. Though the family was poor, he made a living by selling straw sandals and weaving mats. Their home was in Lousang Village of that county. To the southeast of their house stood a great mulberry tree, more than five zhang tall; seen from afar it towered like a carriage canopy. A physiognomist said: This household is sure to produce a man of noble estate.",
    "chapter-1-007": "Fei said: Behind my farm there is a peach garden, and the blossoms are at their fullest. Tomorrow let us go into the garden, make sacrifice and prayer to Heaven and Earth, and swear to be brothers, joined in one purpose and one heart; then we may undertake great deeds. Xuande and Yunchang answered with one voice: That would be very good. The next day, in the peach garden, they prepared the sacrificial offerings of a black ox and a white horse. The three burned incense and, bowing twice, made their oath, saying: We, Liu Bei, Guan Yu, and Zhang Fei, though of different surnames, have sworn to be brothers; henceforth we shall be of one heart and join our strength, to rescue the distressed and succor those in peril; above, we shall requite the state, and below, bring peace to the people. We do not ask to be born in the same year, the same month, and the same day, but we pray that we may die in the same year, the same month, and the same day. To the August Heaven and the Earth below, we truly lay open our hearts. If we betray righteousness and forget our gratitude, may Heaven and man alike put us to death. When the oath was concluded, they bowed to Xuande as the eldest brother, Guan Yu next, and Zhang Fei as the youngest. The sacrifice to Heaven and Earth being ended, they slaughtered the ox and set out wine, gathered the brave men of the village, more than three hundred in all, and drank their fill in the peach garden. The next day they prepared their weapons of war, only regretting that they had no horses to ride.",
    "chapter-1-008": "The heroes come to prominence this very day; one challenges his spear, one challenges his blade. At their first venture they display their might; well may they leave their names to the Threefold Age.",
    "chapter-1-009": "The next day, Xuande and Zou Jing led their troops forward with loud shouts and drums. The rebels came out to fight, and Xuande led his troops in retreat. The rebels pressed the pursuit; but when they had just crossed the mountain ridge, the gongs sounded together throughout Xuande's army, the two flanking forces emerged, and Xuande wheeled his troops about and charged again. Attacked from three sides, the rebels broke utterly. They were pursued right up to the walls of Qingzhou, where the governor, Gong Jing, led out the militia to assist in the fighting. The rebels were badly beaten and a great number were slain, and thus the siege of Qingzhou was lifted. Later men wrote a poem in praise of Xuande, saying:",
    "chapter-1-010": "In counsel and in reckoning he had a godlike skill; two tigers must still yield to one dragon. At his first venture he left behind a mighty achievement, and surely was to share the tripods though poor and alone.",
    "chapter-1-011": "When Gong Jing had finished rewarding the troops, Zou Jing wished to return. Xuande said: I have lately heard that Commandant Lu Zhi is fighting Zhang Jiao, chief of the rebels, at Guangzong. I once studied under Lu Zhi and wish to go and assist him. So Zou Jing led his troops back on his own, while Xuande, with Guan and Zhang, took his own five hundred men and set out for Guangzong. Arriving at Lu Zhi's camp, they entered the tent, made their obeisance, and fully explained their purpose. Lu Zhi was greatly pleased and kept them before his tent to await orders.",
    "chapter-1-012": "At that time Zhang Jiao's rebels numbered one hundred and fifty thousand, and Lu Zhi's troops fifty thousand; they held each other at bay at Guangzong with no decision won. Lu Zhi said to Xuande: I am now holding the rebels at bay here. The rebel brothers Zhang Liang and Zhang Bao are at Yingchuan, facing Huangfu Song and Zhu Jun. You can take your own troops, and I will add a thousand government soldiers to them, and go to Yingchuan to scout out the situation and fix a time to hunt them down. Xuande accepted the order and led his troops by forced night marches to Yingchuan. There Huangfu Song and Zhu Jun were holding the rebels in check, and the rebels, having fared ill in battle, had retreated into Changshe and pitched camp among the grass. Song and Jun took counsel together, saying: The rebels have pitched their camp among the grass; we should attack them with fire. So they ordered the soldiers each to bind up a bundle of grass and to lie in ambush under cover. That night a great wind suddenly arose. After the second watch they set fire all together, and Song and Jun each led troops to assault the rebel camp. The flames reached the sky, and the rebels were thrown into panic; horses were not saddled nor armor put on as they scattered and fled in all directions. The slaughter continued until dawn, when Zhang Liang and Zhang Bao led the remnants of their defeated troops and fled by whatever road they could find.",
    "chapter-1-013": "Suddenly a body of troops appeared, all bearing red banners, coming straight toward them and cutting off their road of retreat. From their head there flashed forth a general, seven chi tall, with narrow eyes and a long beard, an officer holding the rank of Cavalry Commandant. He was a man of the district of Qiao in the kingdom of Pei; his surname was Cao, his given name Cao, his style Mengde. His father, Cao Song, had originally borne the surname Xiahou; because he had become the adopted son of the eunuch Cao Teng, he assumed the surname Cao. Cao Song begot Cao Cao, whose childhood name was A-Man, and who was also called Jili. In his youth Cao Cao loved hunting and delighted in song and dance; he was crafty and full of schemes, and given to many a shift and turn. Cao Cao had an uncle who, seeing that he roamed about without restraint, was often angered by him and complained to Cao Song. Song reproved Cao Cao. Thereupon Cao Cao suddenly conceived a plan: when he saw his uncle coming, he pretended to fall to the ground in a fit of apoplexy. The uncle, alarmed, told Cao Song, who hurried to look at him; but Cao Cao was, of course, none the worse. Song said: Your uncle said you had a stroke; are you recovered now? Cao Cao replied: I have never had such an illness. It is only because I have lost my uncle's affection that he deceives you about me. Song believed his words. Afterward, whenever the uncle spoke of Cao Cao's faults, Song would not listen at all. And so Cao Cao was free to indulge his will as he pleased.",
    "chapter-1-014": "Now to return to Xuande. When he had led Guan and Zhang to Yingchuan, he heard the shouts of battle and saw the firelight reaching the sky, and hurried his troops forward; but by the time he arrived the rebels had already been routed and scattered. Xuande met with Huangfu Song and Zhu Jun and set forth Lu Zhi's intention. Song said: Zhang Liang and Zhang Bao, their position desperate and their strength spent, will surely flee to Guangzong to join Zhang Jiao. Xuande, you should go at once by night to aid him.",
    "chapter-1-015": "Xuande accepted the order and led his troops back again. Halfway along the road he saw a body of soldiers escorting a prison cart, and the prisoner within the cart was Lu Zhi. Xuande, greatly shocked, slipped down from his saddle and asked the reason. Lu Zhi said: I was besieging Zhang Jiao and was on the point of defeating him; but because Jiao used sorcery, I could not win at once. The court sent the Yellow Gate official Zuo Feng to inspect the situation, and he demanded a bribe of me. I answered: Our military provisions are still short; how should I have spare money to flatter the Emperor's envoy? Zuo Feng bore a grudge, and on his return memorialized the court that I had built high ramparts and would not fight, slackening the spirit of the troops. Thereupon the court was enraged and sent the Commandant Dong Zhuo to take command of my troops in my place, and to bring me back to the capital for judgment.",
    "chapter-1-016": "The three galloped out with their troops. Zhang Jiao had just defeated Dong Zhuo and was pressing the pursuit when he suddenly encountered the three charging upon him; Jiao's army fell into great confusion and fled more than fifty li. The three rescued Dong Zhuo and brought him back to camp. Zhuo asked what offices the three held. Xuande said: We are commoners. Dong Zhuo held them in great contempt and showed them no courtesy. As Xuande went out, Zhang Fei flew into a rage and said: We went to bloody battle ourselves and saved this fellow, yet he is so discourteous. If I do not kill him, my anger will never be appeased! He was about to seize his blade and enter the tent to slay Dong Zhuo. Truly: Men's ways are snobbish now as in olden days — who knows a hero in a commoner's guise? Would that all men were bold as Yide, to slay every ingrate in the world! What became of Dong Zhuo's life, pray look to the next chapter for the explanation.",
    "chapter-2-001": "In the sixth year of Zhong Ping, in the summer, the fourth month, Emperor Ling, gravely ill, summoned the Great General He Jin into the palace to discuss affairs after his death. He Jin came of a butcher's family; because his sister had entered the palace as a Consort and had borne the Prince Bian, she was made Empress, and through her He Jin obtained power and high office. The Emperor also favored the Fair Consort Wang, who bore the Prince Xie. The Empress He, in jealousy, poisoned the Fair Consort Wang. The Prince Xie was reared in the palace of the Empress Dowager Dong. The Empress Dowager Dong was the mother of Emperor Ling and wife of Liu Chang, Marquis of Jiedu Pavilion. Formerly, because Emperor Huan had no son, the son of the Marquis of Jiedu Pavilion had been brought to the throne and became Emperor Ling. When Emperor Ling succeeded to the imperial line, he brought his mother to be cared for in the palace and honored her as Empress Dowager.",
    "chapter-2-002": "When He Jin had heard all, he went out and said to the assembled officials: Jian Shuo plotted to harm me; his whole clan should be exterminated. The rest need not be wantonly injured. Yuan Shao said: If you do not cut the grass and pull out the roots, it will surely be the ruin of you. He Jin said: My mind is made up; say no more. And all the officials withdrew.",
    "chapter-2-003": "The next day the Empress Dowager appointed He Jin to a share in the oversight of the Imperial Secretariat, and the rest were all given offices. The Empress Dowager Dong summoned Zhang Rang and others into the palace to take counsel, saying: The sister of He Jin — I was the one who first raised her up. Now that her child has ascended the throne, all the officials within and without are her confidants; her power and authority are too great. What am I to do? Zhang Rang replied: Your Highness may hold court and hear government from behind a screen; enfeoff the Prince Xie as a prince; give the Empress Dowager's brother Dong Zhong high office and let him hold military power; and employ us in important posts — then great things may be compassed.",
    "chapter-2-004": "The Empress Dowager Dong was greatly pleased. The next day, when court was held, she issued a decree enfeoffing the Prince Xie as Prince of Chenliu, making Dong Zhong General of the Flying Cavalry, and giving Zhang Rang and the others a share in the government. The Empress Dowager He, seeing the Empress Dowager Dong monopolize power, gave a banquet in the palace and invited her to attend. When the wine was half drunk, the Empress Dowager He rose, raised her cup, and bowed twice, saying: We are both women, and it is not fitting that we take part in the government of the court. Formerly, because Empress Lü grasped great power, a thousand members of her clan were put to death. Now we should dwell deeply within the nine gates of the palace, and leave the great affairs of the court to the ministers and elder statesmen to deliberate among themselves — this would be the good fortune of the realm. I pray you to give ear to me. The Empress Dowager Dong flew into a rage and said: You poisoned the Fair Consort Wang — your heart is eaten up with jealousy. Now, relying on your son's being emperor and on the power of your brother He Jin, you dare to prate so wildly! I need only order the Flying Cavalry General to cut off your brother's head — as easy as turning over my hand! The Empress He too grew angry and said: I advised you with kind words; why do you fly into a rage? The Empress Dong said: You are but a low-born brood of butchers and wine-sellers — what understanding can you have?",
    "chapter-2-005": "A little later, He Jin entered to report to the Empress Dowager that he wished to put the eunuchs to death. The Empress Dowager He said: That the eunuchs should command the forbidden precincts of the palace is the established custom of the Han house. The late Emperor has but newly departed from the world, and you would slay his old servants — this is not to honor the ancestral temple. He Jin was by nature a man of no decision; hearing the Empress Dowager's words, he answered meekly and went out. Yuan Shao met him and asked: How goes the great matter? He Jin said: The Empress Dowager will not permit it. What am I to do? Shao said: You may summon the heroes and notable men from all quarters to bring their troops to the capital and put all the eunuchs to death. At this pressing moment the Empress Dowager cannot but comply. He Jin said: That is a most excellent plan! He thereupon sent out proclamations to the various garrison commands, summoning them to the capital.",
    "chapter-2-006": "The Registrar Chen Lin said: You must not! As the saying goes, To catch a swallow with covered eyes is to deceive oneself. Even so small a creature cannot be taken by deceit, much less the great affairs of state. Now, General, you rely on the imperial majesty and hold the key to the military power; you stride forth like a dragon, like a tiger, and high or low lies at your heart's will. If you wish to put the eunuchs to death, it is like kindling a great furnace to singe a hair. You need only act quickly, exercise your authority, and decide on the spot — then Heaven and man will accord with you. But instead you send proclamations abroad to the great officials, and they come to the very gates of the capital; heroes gather together, each with his own mind — this is what is called holding the shield and spear by the wrong end and giving another the handle. The deed will surely be accomplished, but disorder will arise from it. He Jin laughed and said: That is the view of a coward! A man beside him clapped his hands and laughed aloud, saying: This matter is as easy as turning over one's hand; why deliberate so much? They looked at him — it was Cao Cao. Truly: If you would root out the villainous crew about the throne, you must heed the counsel of the wise men at court. What words Cao Cao spoke, pray listen to the next chapter for the explanation."
  }
}