namespace,clan,source-language,target-language,version,variant,title,info,standard,dependency,group,group-context,group-type,group-emotion,group-max-width,id,source,target,type,emotion,status,context,max-width,reference,reviewer
clarion,sanguo-brewitt-taylor,zh-CN,en-US,,standard,"San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original with Brewitt-Taylor's 1925 translation","This is the opening of the classic Chinese historical novel Romance of the Three Kingdoms, covering the first two chapters. The text appears as narrative prose with embedded poetry, dialogue, and chapter-end cliffhanger couplets. The audience is general English-language readers of classical Chinese literature. Translators should note that this is a literary work with archaic language, formal narrative conventions, and a large cast of historical figures; consistency in names, titles, and epithets across the whole novel is essential.","Use a formal, literary register appropriate to a classic novel, with slightly archaic but readable English. Romanize Chinese names in Wade-Giles as in the 1925 Brewitt-Taylor translation (e.g., Liu Pei, Kuan Yu, Chang Fei, Ts'ao Ts'ao). Keep official titles translated consistently (e.g., Emperor, General, Prefect). Keep place names in Wade-Giles romanization. Poetry should be rendered as verse with attention to rhyme or meter where feasible. Untranslated terms should be limited to culturally specific items explained in context or notes. Use standard English punctuation and spacing. Chapter-end couplets should be rendered as verse and may be set off from prose.",,chapter-1,"Imported from San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original with Brewitt-Taylor's 1925 translation. Document 'chapter-1', 16 segments in their original order; translate them as one continuous document, not as isolated sentences.",,,,chapter-1-001,建寧二年四月望日，帝御溫德殿。方陞座，殿角狂風驟起，只見一條大青蛇，從梁 上飛將下來，蟠於椅上。帝驚倒，左右急救入宮，百官俱奔避。須臾，蛇不見了。忽然 大雷大雨，加以冰雹，落到半夜方止，壞卻房屋無數。建寧四年二月，洛陽地震；又海 水泛溢，沿海居民，盡被大浪捲入海中。光和元年，雌雞化雄。六月朔，黑氣十餘丈， 飛入溫德殿中。秋七月，有虹見於玉堂；五原山岸，盡皆崩裂。種種不祥，非止一端。,"On the fifteenth day of the fourth month of the second year of Chien Ning, the Emperor held court in the Hall of Warm Virtue. As he was about to take his seat, a violent wind suddenly rose from a corner of the hall, and a great green serpent flew down from the beam and coiled itself upon the throne. The Emperor fell over in terror; his attendants hastily carried him into the palace, and all the officials fled and hid themselves. In a moment the serpent was gone. Then on a sudden came great thunder and rain, with hail, which did not cease until midnight, and destroyed houses beyond number. In the second month of the fourth year of Chien Ning, there was an earthquake at Lo-yang; moreover the sea overflowed, and the people along the coast were all swept by the great waves into the sea. In the first year of Kuang Ho, a hen turned into a cock. On the first day of the sixth month, a black vapor more than ten chang long flew into the Hall of Warm Virtue. In the seventh month of autumn, a rainbow appeared in the Jade Hall, and the cliffs of Wu-yüan Mountain all crumbled and split. These evil omens were of many kinds, and not one alone.",narration,formal|serious|anxious,initial,"chapter 1 / chapter 1. Paragraph 1 of the chapter, aligned by index and verified (16 of 29 proposals accepted). Following segment: 帝下詔問群臣以災異之由，議郎蔡邕上疏，以為蜺墮雞化，乃婦寺干政之所致，言 頗切直。帝覽奏歎息，因起更衣。曹節在後竊視，悉宣告左右。遂以他事陷邕於罪，放 歸田里。後張讓，趙忠，封諝…",,,
clarion,sanguo-brewitt-taylor,zh-CN,en-US,,standard,"San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original with Brewitt-Taylor's 1925 translation","This is the opening of the classic Chinese historical novel Romance of the Three Kingdoms, covering the first two chapters. The text appears as narrative prose with embedded poetry, dialogue, and chapter-end cliffhanger couplets. The audience is general English-language readers of classical Chinese literature. Translators should note that this is a literary work with archaic language, formal narrative conventions, and a large cast of historical figures; consistency in names, titles, and epithets across the whole novel is essential.","Use a formal, literary register appropriate to a classic novel, with slightly archaic but readable English. Romanize Chinese names in Wade-Giles as in the 1925 Brewitt-Taylor translation (e.g., Liu Pei, Kuan Yu, Chang Fei, Ts'ao Ts'ao). Keep official titles translated consistently (e.g., Emperor, General, Prefect). Keep place names in Wade-Giles romanization. Poetry should be rendered as verse with attention to rhyme or meter where feasible. Untranslated terms should be limited to culturally specific items explained in context or notes. Use standard English punctuation and spacing. Chapter-end couplets should be rendered as verse and may be set off from prose.",,chapter-1,"Imported from San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original with Brewitt-Taylor's 1925 translation. Document 'chapter-1', 16 segments in their original order; translate them as one continuous document, not as isolated sentences.",,,,chapter-1-002,帝下詔問群臣以災異之由，議郎蔡邕上疏，以為蜺墮雞化，乃婦寺干政之所致，言 頗切直。帝覽奏歎息，因起更衣。曹節在後竊視，悉宣告左右。遂以他事陷邕於罪，放 歸田里。後張讓，趙忠，封諝，段珪，曹節，候覽，蹇碩，程曠，夏惲，郭勝十人朋比 為奸，號為「十常侍」。帝尊信張讓，呼為「阿父」，朝政日非，以致天下人心思亂， 盜賊蜂起。,"The Emperor issued an edict asking his ministers the cause of these calamities and portents, and Ts'ai Yung, a Gentleman of Counsel, sent up a memorial, holding that the falling of the rainbow and the changing of the hen were brought about by women and eunuchs meddling in the government; his words were somewhat blunt and outspoken. The Emperor, reading the memorial, sighed, and rose to change his garments. Ts'ao Chieh, watching him secretly from behind, told all to those about him. Then he involved Ts'ai Yung in guilt by other means and sent him back to his fields. Afterwards Chang Jang, Chao Chung, Feng Hsü, Tuan Kuei, Ts'ao Chieh, Hou Lan, Chien Shih, Ch'eng K'uang, Hsia Yün, and Kuo Sheng, ten men, banded together for wickedness and were called the 'Ten Regular Attendants.' The Emperor honored and trusted Chang Jang, calling him 'Foster Father,' and the government of the court grew daily worse, until the hearts of the empire turned to disorder and robbers and bandits rose like swarms of bees.",narration,formal|serious|sad,initial,"chapter 1 / chapter 1. Paragraph 2 of the chapter, aligned by index and verified (16 of 29 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 建寧二年四月望日，帝御溫德殿。方陞座，殿角狂風驟起，只見一條大青蛇，從梁 上飛將下來，蟠於椅上。帝驚倒，左右急救入宮，百官俱奔避。須臾，蛇不見了。忽然 大雷大雨，加以冰雹，落到半… Following segment: 時鉅鹿郡有兄弟三人：一名張角，一名張寶，一名張梁。那張角本是個不第秀才。 因入山採藥，遇一老人，碧眼童顏，手執藜杖，喚角至一洞中，以天書三卷授之，曰： 「此名太平要術。汝得之，當…",,,
clarion,sanguo-brewitt-taylor,zh-CN,en-US,,standard,"San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original with Brewitt-Taylor's 1925 translation","This is the opening of the classic Chinese historical novel Romance of the Three Kingdoms, covering the first two chapters. The text appears as narrative prose with embedded poetry, dialogue, and chapter-end cliffhanger couplets. The audience is general English-language readers of classical Chinese literature. Translators should note that this is a literary work with archaic language, formal narrative conventions, and a large cast of historical figures; consistency in names, titles, and epithets across the whole novel is essential.","Use a formal, literary register appropriate to a classic novel, with slightly archaic but readable English. Romanize Chinese names in Wade-Giles as in the 1925 Brewitt-Taylor translation (e.g., Liu Pei, Kuan Yu, Chang Fei, Ts'ao Ts'ao). Keep official titles translated consistently (e.g., Emperor, General, Prefect). Keep place names in Wade-Giles romanization. Poetry should be rendered as verse with attention to rhyme or meter where feasible. Untranslated terms should be limited to culturally specific items explained in context or notes. Use standard English punctuation and spacing. Chapter-end couplets should be rendered as verse and may be set off from prose.",,chapter-1,"Imported from San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original with Brewitt-Taylor's 1925 translation. Document 'chapter-1', 16 segments in their original order; translate them as one continuous document, not as isolated sentences.",,,,chapter-1-003,時鉅鹿郡有兄弟三人：一名張角，一名張寶，一名張梁。那張角本是個不第秀才。 因入山採藥，遇一老人，碧眼童顏，手執藜杖，喚角至一洞中，以天書三卷授之，曰： 「此名太平要術。汝得之，當代天宣化，普救世人；若萌異心，必獲惡報。」角拜問姓 名。老人曰：「吾乃南華老仙也。」言訖，化陣清風而去。,"At this time, in the district of Chü-lu, there were three brothers: one named Chang Chiao, one Chang Pao, and one Chang Liang. This Chang Chiao had failed in the examinations for the doctorate. Having gone into the mountains to gather herbs, he met an old man with blue eyes and a youthful countenance, who held a staff of wild pear. The old man called Chiao into a cave and gave him three volumes of a heavenly book, saying, 'This is called the Essential Art of Great Peace. If you master it, you shall proclaim the transformations of Heaven in its stead and save all men; but if you cherish a rebellious heart, you shall surely receive evil retribution.' Chiao bowed and asked his name. The old man said, 'I am the Old Immortal of Nan-hua.' Having spoken, he changed into a gust of clear wind and was gone.",narration,formal|serious|curious,initial,"chapter 1 / chapter 1. Paragraph 3 of the chapter, aligned by index and verified (16 of 29 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 帝下詔問群臣以災異之由，議郎蔡邕上疏，以為蜺墮雞化，乃婦寺干政之所致，言 頗切直。帝覽奏歎息，因起更衣。曹節在後竊視，悉宣告左右。遂以他事陷邕於罪，放 歸田里。後張讓，趙忠，封諝… Following segment: 張角聞知事露，星夜舉兵，自稱天公將軍，─張寶稱地公將軍，張梁稱人公將軍─ 。申言於眾曰：「今漢運將終，大聖人出﹔汝等皆宜順從天意，以槳太平。」四方百姓 ，裹黃巾從張角反者，四五十…",,,
clarion,sanguo-brewitt-taylor,zh-CN,en-US,,standard,"San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original with Brewitt-Taylor's 1925 translation","This is the opening of the classic Chinese historical novel Romance of the Three Kingdoms, covering the first two chapters. The text appears as narrative prose with embedded poetry, dialogue, and chapter-end cliffhanger couplets. The audience is general English-language readers of classical Chinese literature. Translators should note that this is a literary work with archaic language, formal narrative conventions, and a large cast of historical figures; consistency in names, titles, and epithets across the whole novel is essential.","Use a formal, literary register appropriate to a classic novel, with slightly archaic but readable English. Romanize Chinese names in Wade-Giles as in the 1925 Brewitt-Taylor translation (e.g., Liu Pei, Kuan Yu, Chang Fei, Ts'ao Ts'ao). Keep official titles translated consistently (e.g., Emperor, General, Prefect). Keep place names in Wade-Giles romanization. Poetry should be rendered as verse with attention to rhyme or meter where feasible. Untranslated terms should be limited to culturally specific items explained in context or notes. Use standard English punctuation and spacing. Chapter-end couplets should be rendered as verse and may be set off from prose.",,chapter-1,"Imported from San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original with Brewitt-Taylor's 1925 translation. Document 'chapter-1', 16 segments in their original order; translate them as one continuous document, not as isolated sentences.",,,,chapter-1-004,張角聞知事露，星夜舉兵，自稱天公將軍，─張寶稱地公將軍，張梁稱人公將軍─ 。申言於眾曰：「今漢運將終，大聖人出﹔汝等皆宜順從天意，以槳太平。」四方百姓 ，裹黃巾從張角反者，四五十萬。賊勢浩大，官軍望風而靡。何進奏帝火速降詔，令各 處備禦，討賊立功；一面遣中郎將盧植，皇甫嵩，朱雋，各引精兵，分三路討之。,"When Chang Chiao learned that his affairs were discovered, he raised his troops that very night, calling himself General of Heaven — Chang Pao took the title of General of Earth, and Chang Liang that of General of Men. He declared to the multitude, 'The fortune of the Han is now at its end, and a great sage has appeared; you should all obey the will of Heaven and enjoy the Great Peace.' From every quarter the common people, binding yellow cloths about their heads, followed Chang Chiao in rebellion, to the number of four or five hundred thousand. The rebels' power was mighty, and the imperial troops melted away before them. Ho Chin memorialized the Emperor to send down an edict with all speed, ordering every place to defend itself and win merit by destroying the rebels; and he also sent the Commandants Lu Chih, Huang-fu Sung, and Chu Chün, each leading picked soldiers, to attack them along three roads.",narration,formal|serious|urgent,initial,"chapter 1 / chapter 1. Paragraph 4 of the chapter, aligned by index and verified (16 of 29 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 時鉅鹿郡有兄弟三人：一名張角，一名張寶，一名張梁。那張角本是個不第秀才。 因入山採藥，遇一老人，碧眼童顏，手執藜杖，喚角至一洞中，以天書三卷授之，曰： 「此名太平要術。汝得之，當… Following segment: 且說張角一軍，前犯幽州界分。幽州太守劉焉，乃江夏竟陵人氏，漢魯恭王之後也 ；當時聞得賊兵將至，召校尉鄒靖計議。靖曰：「賊兵眾，我兵寡，明公宜作速招軍應 敵。」劉焉然其說，隨即出榜…",,,
clarion,sanguo-brewitt-taylor,zh-CN,en-US,,standard,"San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original with Brewitt-Taylor's 1925 translation","This is the opening of the classic Chinese historical novel Romance of the Three Kingdoms, covering the first two chapters. The text appears as narrative prose with embedded poetry, dialogue, and chapter-end cliffhanger couplets. The audience is general English-language readers of classical Chinese literature. Translators should note that this is a literary work with archaic language, formal narrative conventions, and a large cast of historical figures; consistency in names, titles, and epithets across the whole novel is essential.","Use a formal, literary register appropriate to a classic novel, with slightly archaic but readable English. Romanize Chinese names in Wade-Giles as in the 1925 Brewitt-Taylor translation (e.g., Liu Pei, Kuan Yu, Chang Fei, Ts'ao Ts'ao). Keep official titles translated consistently (e.g., Emperor, General, Prefect). Keep place names in Wade-Giles romanization. Poetry should be rendered as verse with attention to rhyme or meter where feasible. Untranslated terms should be limited to culturally specific items explained in context or notes. Use standard English punctuation and spacing. Chapter-end couplets should be rendered as verse and may be set off from prose.",,chapter-1,"Imported from San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original with Brewitt-Taylor's 1925 translation. Document 'chapter-1', 16 segments in their original order; translate them as one continuous document, not as isolated sentences.",,,,chapter-1-005,且說張角一軍，前犯幽州界分。幽州太守劉焉，乃江夏竟陵人氏，漢魯恭王之後也 ；當時聞得賊兵將至，召校尉鄒靖計議。靖曰：「賊兵眾，我兵寡，明公宜作速招軍應 敵。」劉焉然其說，隨即出榜招募義兵。榜文行到涿縣，乃引出涿縣中一個英雄。,"Let us now speak of one of Chang Chiao's armies, which first invaded the borders of Yu-chou. The Prefect of Yu-chou, Liu Yen, a native of Ching-ling in Chiang-hsia and a descendant of the Prince Kung of Lu of the Han, when he heard that the rebel troops were about to arrive, called the Commandant Tsou Ching to take counsel with him. Ching said, 'The rebels are many and our men are few; you, my lord, should quickly raise troops and meet them.' Liu Yen approved his words, and at once posted a notice calling for the enlistment of volunteer soldiers. The notice came to the district of Cho, and thereby brought forward a hero from Cho.",narration,formal|serious|neutral,initial,"chapter 1 / chapter 1. Paragraph 5 of the chapter, aligned by index and verified (16 of 29 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 張角聞知事露，星夜舉兵，自稱天公將軍，─張寶稱地公將軍，張梁稱人公將軍─ 。申言於眾曰：「今漢運將終，大聖人出﹔汝等皆宜順從天意，以槳太平。」四方百姓 ，裹黃巾從張角反者，四五十… Following segment: 那人不甚好讀書；性寬和，寡言語，喜怒不形於色；素有大志，專好結交天下豪傑 ；生得身長七尺五寸，兩耳垂肩，雙手過膝，目能自顧其耳，面如冠玉，脣若塗脂；中 山靖王劉勝之後，漢景帝閣下…",,,
clarion,sanguo-brewitt-taylor,zh-CN,en-US,,standard,"San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original with Brewitt-Taylor's 1925 translation","This is the opening of the classic Chinese historical novel Romance of the Three Kingdoms, covering the first two chapters. The text appears as narrative prose with embedded poetry, dialogue, and chapter-end cliffhanger couplets. The audience is general English-language readers of classical Chinese literature. Translators should note that this is a literary work with archaic language, formal narrative conventions, and a large cast of historical figures; consistency in names, titles, and epithets across the whole novel is essential.","Use a formal, literary register appropriate to a classic novel, with slightly archaic but readable English. Romanize Chinese names in Wade-Giles as in the 1925 Brewitt-Taylor translation (e.g., Liu Pei, Kuan Yu, Chang Fei, Ts'ao Ts'ao). Keep official titles translated consistently (e.g., Emperor, General, Prefect). Keep place names in Wade-Giles romanization. Poetry should be rendered as verse with attention to rhyme or meter where feasible. Untranslated terms should be limited to culturally specific items explained in context or notes. Use standard English punctuation and spacing. Chapter-end couplets should be rendered as verse and may be set off from prose.",,chapter-1,"Imported from San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original with Brewitt-Taylor's 1925 translation. Document 'chapter-1', 16 segments in their original order; translate them as one continuous document, not as isolated sentences.",,,,chapter-1-006,那人不甚好讀書；性寬和，寡言語，喜怒不形於色；素有大志，專好結交天下豪傑 ；生得身長七尺五寸，兩耳垂肩，雙手過膝，目能自顧其耳，面如冠玉，脣若塗脂；中 山靖王劉勝之後，漢景帝閣下玄孫﹔姓劉，名備，字玄德。昔劉勝之子劉貞，漢武時封 涿鹿亭侯，後坐酬金失侯，因此遺這一枝在涿縣。玄德祖劉雄，父劉弘。弘曾舉孝廉， 亦嘗作吏，早喪。玄德幼孤，事母至孝；家貧，販屨織蓆為業。家住本縣樓桑村。其家 之東南，有一大桑樹，高五丈餘，遙望之，童童如車蓋。相者云：「此家必出貴人。」,"This man was not very fond of reading; he was of a gentle and kindly nature, sparing of speech, and showed neither joy nor anger in his face. He had cherished great ambitions from of old, and delighted above all in making friends with the heroes of the empire. He was seven feet five inches in height, with ears that hung to his shoulders and hands that reached below his knees; his eyes could turn back to see his own ears, his face was as fair as polished jade, and his lips as though painted with vermilion. He was a descendant of Liu Sheng, Prince Ching of Chung-shan, and a great-great-grandson of the Emperor Ching of Han; his surname was Liu, his name Pei, and his style Hsüan-te. Formerly Liu Chen, son of Liu Sheng, was made Marquis of Cho-lu in the time of the Emperor Wu of Han, but afterwards lost his rank for a default in the tribute of gold; and thus this branch of the family came to be left in the district of Cho. Hsüan-te's grandfather was Liu Hsiung, and his father Liu Hung. Hung had been recommended as a filial and incorrupt official, and had also served as an official, but he died early. Hsüan-te, left an orphan as a child, served his mother with the utmost filial piety; his family being poor, he made a living by selling straw sandals and weaving mats. His home was in the village of Lou-sang in that district. To the southeast of his house stood a great mulberry tree, more than five chang in height, which, seen from afar, spread out thick and round like a carriage canopy. A physiognomist said, 'From this house a noble man must surely come.'",narration,formal|serious|hopeful,initial,"chapter 1 / chapter 1. Paragraph 6 of the chapter, aligned by index and verified (16 of 29 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 且說張角一軍，前犯幽州界分。幽州太守劉焉，乃江夏竟陵人氏，漢魯恭王之後也 ；當時聞得賊兵將至，召校尉鄒靖計議。靖曰：「賊兵眾，我兵寡，明公宜作速招軍應 敵。」劉焉然其說，隨即出榜… Following segment: 飛曰：「吾莊後有一桃園，花開正盛；明日當於園中祭告天地，我三人結為兄弟， 協力同心，然後可圖大事。」玄德、雲長、齊聲應曰：「如此甚好。」次日，於桃園中 ，備下烏牛白馬祭禮等項，三…",,,
clarion,sanguo-brewitt-taylor,zh-CN,en-US,,standard,"San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original with Brewitt-Taylor's 1925 translation","This is the opening of the classic Chinese historical novel Romance of the Three Kingdoms, covering the first two chapters. The text appears as narrative prose with embedded poetry, dialogue, and chapter-end cliffhanger couplets. The audience is general English-language readers of classical Chinese literature. Translators should note that this is a literary work with archaic language, formal narrative conventions, and a large cast of historical figures; consistency in names, titles, and epithets across the whole novel is essential.","Use a formal, literary register appropriate to a classic novel, with slightly archaic but readable English. Romanize Chinese names in Wade-Giles as in the 1925 Brewitt-Taylor translation (e.g., Liu Pei, Kuan Yu, Chang Fei, Ts'ao Ts'ao). Keep official titles translated consistently (e.g., Emperor, General, Prefect). Keep place names in Wade-Giles romanization. Poetry should be rendered as verse with attention to rhyme or meter where feasible. Untranslated terms should be limited to culturally specific items explained in context or notes. Use standard English punctuation and spacing. Chapter-end couplets should be rendered as verse and may be set off from prose.",,chapter-1,"Imported from San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original with Brewitt-Taylor's 1925 translation. Document 'chapter-1', 16 segments in their original order; translate them as one continuous document, not as isolated sentences.",,,,chapter-1-007,飛曰：「吾莊後有一桃園，花開正盛；明日當於園中祭告天地，我三人結為兄弟， 協力同心，然後可圖大事。」玄德、雲長、齊聲應曰：「如此甚好。」次日，於桃園中 ，備下烏牛白馬祭禮等項，三人焚香，再拜而說誓曰：「念劉備、關羽、張飛，雖然異 姓，既結為兄弟，則同心協力，救困扶危；上報國家，下安黎庶；不求同年同月同日生 ，但願同年同月同日死。皇天后土，實鑒此心。背義忘恩，天人共戮。」誓畢，拜玄德 為兄，關羽次之，張飛為弟。祭罷天地，復宰牛設酒，聚鄉中勇士，得三百餘人，就桃 園中痛飲一醉。來日收拾軍器，但恨無馬匹可乘。,"Fei said, 'Behind my farm there is a peach garden whose flowers are now in fullest bloom; tomorrow we should make sacrifice to Heaven and Earth in that garden, and the three of us shall become brothers, joining our strength with one heart, and then we may plan great deeds.' Hsüan-te and Yün-chang answered with one voice, 'That is very well.' The next day, in the peach garden, they prepared offerings of a black bull and a white horse, and the three burned incense and made double obeisance, and spoke this oath: 'We, Liu Pei, Kuan Yü, and Chang Fei, though of different surnames, do now become brothers, and will unite our strength with one heart to save the distressed and succor the endangered; above, to requite the state, and below, to bring peace to the common people. We ask not to be born on the same day, in the same month, of the same year, but we ask that we may die on the same day, in the same month, of the same year. To the August Heaven and the Earth beneath, we truly show this heart. If we prove false and forget our duty, may Heaven and man alike destroy us.' When the oath was ended, Hsüan-te was honored as the elder brother, Kuan Yü next, and Chang Fei the youngest. The sacrifice to Heaven and Earth being over, they slaughtered the ox and set out wine, gathered the brave men of the village, and got more than three hundred; and in the peach garden they drank deep and were drunk. On the morrow they prepared weapons of war, but lamented only that they had no horses to ride.",narration,formal|serious|hopeful,initial,"chapter 1 / chapter 1. Paragraph 7 of the chapter, aligned by index and verified (16 of 29 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 那人不甚好讀書；性寬和，寡言語，喜怒不形於色；素有大志，專好結交天下豪傑 ；生得身長七尺五寸，兩耳垂肩，雙手過膝，目能自顧其耳，面如冠玉，脣若塗脂；中 山靖王劉勝之後，漢景帝閣下… Following segment: 英雄發穎在今朝，一試矛兮一試刀。初出便將威力展，三分好把姓名標。",,,
clarion,sanguo-brewitt-taylor,zh-CN,en-US,,standard,"San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original with Brewitt-Taylor's 1925 translation","This is the opening of the classic Chinese historical novel Romance of the Three Kingdoms, covering the first two chapters. The text appears as narrative prose with embedded poetry, dialogue, and chapter-end cliffhanger couplets. The audience is general English-language readers of classical Chinese literature. Translators should note that this is a literary work with archaic language, formal narrative conventions, and a large cast of historical figures; consistency in names, titles, and epithets across the whole novel is essential.","Use a formal, literary register appropriate to a classic novel, with slightly archaic but readable English. Romanize Chinese names in Wade-Giles as in the 1925 Brewitt-Taylor translation (e.g., Liu Pei, Kuan Yu, Chang Fei, Ts'ao Ts'ao). Keep official titles translated consistently (e.g., Emperor, General, Prefect). Keep place names in Wade-Giles romanization. Poetry should be rendered as verse with attention to rhyme or meter where feasible. Untranslated terms should be limited to culturally specific items explained in context or notes. Use standard English punctuation and spacing. Chapter-end couplets should be rendered as verse and may be set off from prose.",,chapter-1,"Imported from San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original with Brewitt-Taylor's 1925 translation. Document 'chapter-1', 16 segments in their original order; translate them as one continuous document, not as isolated sentences.",,,,chapter-1-008,英雄發穎在今朝，一試矛兮一試刀。初出便將威力展，三分好把姓名標。,"Upon this day the hero's worth appears;
He tries the spear, he tries the blade.
At his first venture power displayed,
In the Three Kingdoms his name shall be made.",narration,formal|hopeful|serious,initial,"chapter 1 / chapter 1. Paragraph 8 of the chapter, aligned by index and verified (16 of 29 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 飛曰：「吾莊後有一桃園，花開正盛；明日當於園中祭告天地，我三人結為兄弟， 協力同心，然後可圖大事。」玄德、雲長、齊聲應曰：「如此甚好。」次日，於桃園中 ，備下烏牛白馬祭禮等項，三… Following segment: 次日，玄德與鄒靖，引軍鼓譟而進。賊眾迎戰，玄德引軍便退。賊眾乘勢追趕，方 過山嶺，玄德軍中一齊鳴金，左右兩軍齊出，玄德麾軍回身復殺。三路夾攻，賊眾大潰 。直趕至青州城下，太守龔景…",,,
clarion,sanguo-brewitt-taylor,zh-CN,en-US,,standard,"San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original with Brewitt-Taylor's 1925 translation","This is the opening of the classic Chinese historical novel Romance of the Three Kingdoms, covering the first two chapters. The text appears as narrative prose with embedded poetry, dialogue, and chapter-end cliffhanger couplets. The audience is general English-language readers of classical Chinese literature. Translators should note that this is a literary work with archaic language, formal narrative conventions, and a large cast of historical figures; consistency in names, titles, and epithets across the whole novel is essential.","Use a formal, literary register appropriate to a classic novel, with slightly archaic but readable English. Romanize Chinese names in Wade-Giles as in the 1925 Brewitt-Taylor translation (e.g., Liu Pei, Kuan Yu, Chang Fei, Ts'ao Ts'ao). Keep official titles translated consistently (e.g., Emperor, General, Prefect). Keep place names in Wade-Giles romanization. Poetry should be rendered as verse with attention to rhyme or meter where feasible. Untranslated terms should be limited to culturally specific items explained in context or notes. Use standard English punctuation and spacing. Chapter-end couplets should be rendered as verse and may be set off from prose.",,chapter-1,"Imported from San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original with Brewitt-Taylor's 1925 translation. Document 'chapter-1', 16 segments in their original order; translate them as one continuous document, not as isolated sentences.",,,,chapter-1-009,次日，玄德與鄒靖，引軍鼓譟而進。賊眾迎戰，玄德引軍便退。賊眾乘勢追趕，方 過山嶺，玄德軍中一齊鳴金，左右兩軍齊出，玄德麾軍回身復殺。三路夾攻，賊眾大潰 。直趕至青州城下，太守龔景亦率民兵出城助戰。賊勢大敗，剿戮極多，遂解青州之圍 。後人有詩讚玄德曰：,"The next day Hsüan-te and Tsou Ching led their troops forward with drums beating and men shouting. The rebels came out to fight, and Hsüan-te led his men in retreat. The rebels pursued, taking advantage of their success; but when they had just passed the ridge, the gongs sounded all together in Hsüan-te's army, and the two forces on either side came out at once, while Hsüan-te wheeled his men about and fell upon them again. Attacked on three sides, the rebels were utterly routed. They were pursued right to the walls of Ch'ing-chou, where the Prefect Kung Ching also led out the militia to help in the fighting. The rebels were badly beaten and great numbers were slain, and so the siege of Ch'ing-chou was raised. Afterwards a man made a poem in praise of Hsüan-te, saying:",narration,formal|serious|joyful,initial,"chapter 1 / chapter 1. Paragraph 9 of the chapter, aligned by index and verified (16 of 29 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 英雄發穎在今朝，一試矛兮一試刀。初出便將威力展，三分好把姓名標。 Following segment: 運籌決算有神功，二虎還須遜一龍。初出便能垂偉績，自應分鼎在孤窮。",,,
clarion,sanguo-brewitt-taylor,zh-CN,en-US,,standard,"San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original with Brewitt-Taylor's 1925 translation","This is the opening of the classic Chinese historical novel Romance of the Three Kingdoms, covering the first two chapters. The text appears as narrative prose with embedded poetry, dialogue, and chapter-end cliffhanger couplets. The audience is general English-language readers of classical Chinese literature. Translators should note that this is a literary work with archaic language, formal narrative conventions, and a large cast of historical figures; consistency in names, titles, and epithets across the whole novel is essential.","Use a formal, literary register appropriate to a classic novel, with slightly archaic but readable English. Romanize Chinese names in Wade-Giles as in the 1925 Brewitt-Taylor translation (e.g., Liu Pei, Kuan Yu, Chang Fei, Ts'ao Ts'ao). Keep official titles translated consistently (e.g., Emperor, General, Prefect). Keep place names in Wade-Giles romanization. Poetry should be rendered as verse with attention to rhyme or meter where feasible. Untranslated terms should be limited to culturally specific items explained in context or notes. Use standard English punctuation and spacing. Chapter-end couplets should be rendered as verse and may be set off from prose.",,chapter-1,"Imported from San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original with Brewitt-Taylor's 1925 translation. Document 'chapter-1', 16 segments in their original order; translate them as one continuous document, not as isolated sentences.",,,,chapter-1-010,運籌決算有神功，二虎還須遜一龍。初出便能垂偉績，自應分鼎在孤窮。,"His godlike skill in counsel and device
Two tigers must to one lone dragon yield.
At his first venture deeds of greatness rise;
Though poor and lone, the tripod he must wield.",narration,formal|hopeful|serious,initial,"chapter 1 / chapter 1. Paragraph 10 of the chapter, aligned by index and verified (16 of 29 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 次日，玄德與鄒靖，引軍鼓譟而進。賊眾迎戰，玄德引軍便退。賊眾乘勢追趕，方 過山嶺，玄德軍中一齊鳴金，左右兩軍齊出，玄德麾軍回身復殺。三路夾攻，賊眾大潰 。直趕至青州城下，太守龔景… Following segment: 龔景犒軍畢，鄒靖欲回。玄德曰：「近聞中郎將盧植與賊首張角戰於廣宗，備昔曾 師事盧植，欲往助之。」於是鄒靖引軍自回，玄德與關、張引本部五百人投廣宗來。至 盧植軍中，入帳施禮，具道來…",,,
clarion,sanguo-brewitt-taylor,zh-CN,en-US,,standard,"San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original with Brewitt-Taylor's 1925 translation","This is the opening of the classic Chinese historical novel Romance of the Three Kingdoms, covering the first two chapters. The text appears as narrative prose with embedded poetry, dialogue, and chapter-end cliffhanger couplets. The audience is general English-language readers of classical Chinese literature. Translators should note that this is a literary work with archaic language, formal narrative conventions, and a large cast of historical figures; consistency in names, titles, and epithets across the whole novel is essential.","Use a formal, literary register appropriate to a classic novel, with slightly archaic but readable English. Romanize Chinese names in Wade-Giles as in the 1925 Brewitt-Taylor translation (e.g., Liu Pei, Kuan Yu, Chang Fei, Ts'ao Ts'ao). Keep official titles translated consistently (e.g., Emperor, General, Prefect). Keep place names in Wade-Giles romanization. Poetry should be rendered as verse with attention to rhyme or meter where feasible. Untranslated terms should be limited to culturally specific items explained in context or notes. Use standard English punctuation and spacing. Chapter-end couplets should be rendered as verse and may be set off from prose.",,chapter-1,"Imported from San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original with Brewitt-Taylor's 1925 translation. Document 'chapter-1', 16 segments in their original order; translate them as one continuous document, not as isolated sentences.",,,,chapter-1-011,龔景犒軍畢，鄒靖欲回。玄德曰：「近聞中郎將盧植與賊首張角戰於廣宗，備昔曾 師事盧植，欲往助之。」於是鄒靖引軍自回，玄德與關、張引本部五百人投廣宗來。至 盧植軍中，入帳施禮，具道來意。盧植大喜，留在帳前聽調。,"When Kung Ching had finished rewarding the troops, Tsou Ching wished to return. Hsüan-te said, 'I have lately heard that the Commandant Lu Chih is fighting the rebel leader Chang Chiao at Kuang-tsung; I once studied under Lu Chih and wish to go and aid him.' So Tsou Ching led his troops back, while Hsüan-te, with Kuan and Chang, took his own five hundred men and came to Kuang-tsung. Arriving in Lu Chih's camp, they entered his tent and paid their respects, and fully explained their purpose in coming. Lu Chih was greatly pleased and kept them before his tent to await orders.",narration,formal|serious|neutral,initial,"chapter 1 / chapter 1. Paragraph 11 of the chapter, aligned by index and verified (16 of 29 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 運籌決算有神功，二虎還須遜一龍。初出便能垂偉績，自應分鼎在孤窮。 Following segment: 時張角賊眾十五萬，植兵五萬，相拒於廣宗，未見勝負。植謂玄德曰：「我今圍賊 在此，賊弟張梁，張寶在潁川，與皇甫嵩、朱雋對壘。汝可引本部人馬，我更助汝一千 官軍，前去潁川打探消息，約…",,,
clarion,sanguo-brewitt-taylor,zh-CN,en-US,,standard,"San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original with Brewitt-Taylor's 1925 translation","This is the opening of the classic Chinese historical novel Romance of the Three Kingdoms, covering the first two chapters. The text appears as narrative prose with embedded poetry, dialogue, and chapter-end cliffhanger couplets. The audience is general English-language readers of classical Chinese literature. Translators should note that this is a literary work with archaic language, formal narrative conventions, and a large cast of historical figures; consistency in names, titles, and epithets across the whole novel is essential.","Use a formal, literary register appropriate to a classic novel, with slightly archaic but readable English. Romanize Chinese names in Wade-Giles as in the 1925 Brewitt-Taylor translation (e.g., Liu Pei, Kuan Yu, Chang Fei, Ts'ao Ts'ao). Keep official titles translated consistently (e.g., Emperor, General, Prefect). Keep place names in Wade-Giles romanization. Poetry should be rendered as verse with attention to rhyme or meter where feasible. Untranslated terms should be limited to culturally specific items explained in context or notes. Use standard English punctuation and spacing. Chapter-end couplets should be rendered as verse and may be set off from prose.",,chapter-1,"Imported from San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original with Brewitt-Taylor's 1925 translation. Document 'chapter-1', 16 segments in their original order; translate them as one continuous document, not as isolated sentences.",,,,chapter-1-012,時張角賊眾十五萬，植兵五萬，相拒於廣宗，未見勝負。植謂玄德曰：「我今圍賊 在此，賊弟張梁，張寶在潁川，與皇甫嵩、朱雋對壘。汝可引本部人馬，我更助汝一千 官軍，前去潁川打探消息，約期剿捕。」玄德領命，引軍星夜投潁川來。時皇甫嵩、朱 雋領軍拒賊，賊戰不利，退入長社，依草結營。嵩與雋計曰：「賊依草結營，當用火攻 之。」遂令軍士，每人束草一把，暗地埋伏。其夜大風忽起。二更以後，一齊縱火，嵩 與雋各引兵攻擊賊寨，火燄張天，賊眾驚慌，馬不及鞍，人不及甲，四散奔走。殺到天 明，張梁、張寶引敗殘軍士，奪路而走。,"At that time Chang Chiao's rebels numbered one hundred and fifty thousand, and Lu Chih's troops fifty thousand, and they held each other at bay at Kuang-tsung without either gaining the advantage. Lu Chih said to Hsüan-te, 'I am now besieging the rebels here, while the rebel brothers Chang Liang and Chang Pao are at Ying-ch'uan, facing Huang-fu Sung and Chu Chün. You may lead your own men, and I will add to them a thousand imperial troops, and go to Ying-ch'uan to find out how matters stand, and fix a day for their destruction.' Hsüan-te received the order and marched his troops by night toward Ying-ch'uan. At that time Huang-fu Sung and Chu Chün were leading their forces against the rebels, who fought at a disadvantage and retired into Ch'ang-she, where they made camp among the dry grass. Sung and Chün took counsel together, saying, 'The rebels have camped amid the grass; we should attack them with fire.' So they ordered the soldiers each to bind a bundle of grass and to lie in ambush. That night a great wind suddenly arose. After the second watch they set fire all together, and Sung and Chün each led their troops to attack the rebel camp. The flames spread to the sky; the rebels were thrown into panic, and men could not saddle their horses nor don their armor, but fled scattering in every direction. The slaughter continued till dawn, when Chang Liang and Chang Pao, with the remnants of their beaten soldiers, cut their way out and fled.",narration,formal|serious|urgent,initial,"chapter 1 / chapter 1. Paragraph 12 of the chapter, aligned by index and verified (16 of 29 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 龔景犒軍畢，鄒靖欲回。玄德曰：「近聞中郎將盧植與賊首張角戰於廣宗，備昔曾 師事盧植，欲往助之。」於是鄒靖引軍自回，玄德與關、張引本部五百人投廣宗來。至 盧植軍中，入帳施禮，具道來… Following segment: 忽見一彪軍馬，盡打紅旗，當頭來到，截往去路。為首閃出一將，身長七尺，細眼 長髯；官拜騎都尉；沛國譙郡人也：姓曹，名操，字孟德。操父曹嵩，本姓夏侯氏；因 為中常侍曹騰之養子，故冒姓…",,,
clarion,sanguo-brewitt-taylor,zh-CN,en-US,,standard,"San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original with Brewitt-Taylor's 1925 translation","This is the opening of the classic Chinese historical novel Romance of the Three Kingdoms, covering the first two chapters. The text appears as narrative prose with embedded poetry, dialogue, and chapter-end cliffhanger couplets. The audience is general English-language readers of classical Chinese literature. Translators should note that this is a literary work with archaic language, formal narrative conventions, and a large cast of historical figures; consistency in names, titles, and epithets across the whole novel is essential.","Use a formal, literary register appropriate to a classic novel, with slightly archaic but readable English. Romanize Chinese names in Wade-Giles as in the 1925 Brewitt-Taylor translation (e.g., Liu Pei, Kuan Yu, Chang Fei, Ts'ao Ts'ao). Keep official titles translated consistently (e.g., Emperor, General, Prefect). Keep place names in Wade-Giles romanization. Poetry should be rendered as verse with attention to rhyme or meter where feasible. Untranslated terms should be limited to culturally specific items explained in context or notes. Use standard English punctuation and spacing. Chapter-end couplets should be rendered as verse and may be set off from prose.",,chapter-1,"Imported from San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original with Brewitt-Taylor's 1925 translation. Document 'chapter-1', 16 segments in their original order; translate them as one continuous document, not as isolated sentences.",,,,chapter-1-013,忽見一彪軍馬，盡打紅旗，當頭來到，截往去路。為首閃出一將，身長七尺，細眼 長髯；官拜騎都尉；沛國譙郡人也：姓曹，名操，字孟德。操父曹嵩，本姓夏侯氏；因 為中常侍曹騰之養子，故冒姓曹。曹嵩生操，小字阿瞞，一名吉利。操幼時，好游獵， 喜歌舞；有權謀，多機變。操有叔父，見操游蕩無度，嘗怒之，言於曹嵩。嵩責操。操 忽心生一計：見叔父來，詐倒於地，作中風之狀。叔父驚告嵩，嵩急視之，操故無恙。 嵩曰：「叔言汝中風，今己愈乎？」操曰：「兒自來無此病；因失愛於叔父，故見罔耳 。」嵩信其言。後叔父但言操過，嵩並不聽。因此，操得恣意放蕩。,"Suddenly a body of horse and foot appeared, all with red banners, coming straight toward them and cutting off their road of retreat. From the head of the column rode out a leader, seven feet in height, with narrow eyes and a long beard; he held the rank of Commandant of Cavalry; he was a man of Ch'iao in the state of P'ei: his surname was Ts'ao, his name Ts'ao, and his style Meng-te. Ts'ao's father was Ts'ao Sung, whose original surname was Hsia-hou; but because he became the adopted son of the eunuch Ts'ao T'eng, he took the surname of Ts'ao. Ts'ao Sung begot Ts'ao, whose boyhood name was A-man, and who was also called Chi-li. In his youth Ts'ao loved hunting and delighted in music and dancing; he was crafty and full of shifts. Ts'ao had an uncle who, seeing that Ts'ao gave himself up to idleness without restraint, was often angry with him and told Ts'ao Sung of it. Sung reproved Ts'ao. Then Ts'ao suddenly conceived a plan: when he saw his uncle coming, he pretended to fall to the ground in a fit of apoplexy. His uncle, alarmed, told Sung, who hurried to see him, but Ts'ao was quite well as before. Sung said, 'Your uncle said you had a stroke; are you now recovered?' Ts'ao replied, 'I never had such a disease; it is only because I have lost your uncle's favor that he deceives you so.' Sung believed his words. Afterwards, whenever the uncle spoke of Ts'ao's faults, Sung would not listen. And so Ts'ao was able to indulge his will without restraint.",narration,objective|formal,initial,"chapter 1 / chapter 1. Paragraph 13 of the chapter, aligned by index and verified (16 of 29 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 時張角賊眾十五萬，植兵五萬，相拒於廣宗，未見勝負。植謂玄德曰：「我今圍賊 在此，賊弟張梁，張寶在潁川，與皇甫嵩、朱雋對壘。汝可引本部人馬，我更助汝一千 官軍，前去潁川打探消息，約… Following segment: 卻說玄德引關、張來潁川，聽得喊殺之聲，又望見火光燭天，急引兵來時，賊已敗 散。玄德見皇甫嵩，朱雋，其道盧植之意。嵩曰：「張梁、張寶勢窮力乏，必投廣宗去 依張角。玄德可即星夜往助。」",,,
clarion,sanguo-brewitt-taylor,zh-CN,en-US,,standard,"San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original with Brewitt-Taylor's 1925 translation","This is the opening of the classic Chinese historical novel Romance of the Three Kingdoms, covering the first two chapters. The text appears as narrative prose with embedded poetry, dialogue, and chapter-end cliffhanger couplets. The audience is general English-language readers of classical Chinese literature. Translators should note that this is a literary work with archaic language, formal narrative conventions, and a large cast of historical figures; consistency in names, titles, and epithets across the whole novel is essential.","Use a formal, literary register appropriate to a classic novel, with slightly archaic but readable English. Romanize Chinese names in Wade-Giles as in the 1925 Brewitt-Taylor translation (e.g., Liu Pei, Kuan Yu, Chang Fei, Ts'ao Ts'ao). Keep official titles translated consistently (e.g., Emperor, General, Prefect). Keep place names in Wade-Giles romanization. Poetry should be rendered as verse with attention to rhyme or meter where feasible. Untranslated terms should be limited to culturally specific items explained in context or notes. Use standard English punctuation and spacing. Chapter-end couplets should be rendered as verse and may be set off from prose.",,chapter-1,"Imported from San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original with Brewitt-Taylor's 1925 translation. Document 'chapter-1', 16 segments in their original order; translate them as one continuous document, not as isolated sentences.",,,,chapter-1-014,卻說玄德引關、張來潁川，聽得喊殺之聲，又望見火光燭天，急引兵來時，賊已敗 散。玄德見皇甫嵩，朱雋，其道盧植之意。嵩曰：「張梁、張寶勢窮力乏，必投廣宗去 依張角。玄德可即星夜往助。」,"Let us now return to Hsüan-te, who, leading Kuan and Chang, came to Ying-ch'uan. Hearing the shouts of battle and seeing flames lighting up the sky, he hurried his troops forward, but by the time he arrived the rebels had been defeated and scattered. Hsüan-te met Huang-fu Sung and Chu Chün and told them of Lu Chih's intention. Sung said, 'Chang Liang and Chang Pao, their strength spent and their power exhausted, will surely flee to Kuang-tsung to join Chang Chiao. You, Hsüan-te, should go at once by night to aid him.'",narration,neutral|formal,initial,"chapter 1 / chapter 1. Paragraph 14 of the chapter, aligned by index and verified (16 of 29 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 忽見一彪軍馬，盡打紅旗，當頭來到，截往去路。為首閃出一將，身長七尺，細眼 長髯；官拜騎都尉；沛國譙郡人也：姓曹，名操，字孟德。操父曹嵩，本姓夏侯氏；因 為中常侍曹騰之養子，故冒姓… Following segment: 玄德領命，遂引兵復回。到得半路，只見一簇軍馬，護送一輛檻車，車中之囚，乃 盧植也。玄德大驚，滾鞍下馬，問其緣故。植曰：「我圍張角，將次可破；因角用妖術 ，未能即勝。朝廷差黃門左豐…",,,
clarion,sanguo-brewitt-taylor,zh-CN,en-US,,standard,"San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original with Brewitt-Taylor's 1925 translation","This is the opening of the classic Chinese historical novel Romance of the Three Kingdoms, covering the first two chapters. The text appears as narrative prose with embedded poetry, dialogue, and chapter-end cliffhanger couplets. The audience is general English-language readers of classical Chinese literature. Translators should note that this is a literary work with archaic language, formal narrative conventions, and a large cast of historical figures; consistency in names, titles, and epithets across the whole novel is essential.","Use a formal, literary register appropriate to a classic novel, with slightly archaic but readable English. Romanize Chinese names in Wade-Giles as in the 1925 Brewitt-Taylor translation (e.g., Liu Pei, Kuan Yu, Chang Fei, Ts'ao Ts'ao). Keep official titles translated consistently (e.g., Emperor, General, Prefect). Keep place names in Wade-Giles romanization. Poetry should be rendered as verse with attention to rhyme or meter where feasible. Untranslated terms should be limited to culturally specific items explained in context or notes. Use standard English punctuation and spacing. Chapter-end couplets should be rendered as verse and may be set off from prose.",,chapter-1,"Imported from San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original with Brewitt-Taylor's 1925 translation. Document 'chapter-1', 16 segments in their original order; translate them as one continuous document, not as isolated sentences.",,,,chapter-1-015,玄德領命，遂引兵復回。到得半路，只見一簇軍馬，護送一輛檻車，車中之囚，乃 盧植也。玄德大驚，滾鞍下馬，問其緣故。植曰：「我圍張角，將次可破；因角用妖術 ，未能即勝。朝廷差黃門左豐前來體探，問我索取賄賂。我答曰：『軍糧尚缺，安有餘 錢奉承天使？』左豐挾恨，回奏朝廷，說我高壘不戰，惰慢軍心；因此朝廷震怒，遣中 郎將董卓來代將我兵，取我回京問罪。」","Hsüan-te received the order and led his troops back. When he had gone half the way, he saw a body of soldiers escorting a prisoner's cart, and the prisoner in the cart was none other than Lu Chih. Hsüan-te, greatly shocked, slipped from his saddle and asked the reason. Chih said, 'I was besieging Chang Chiao and was on the point of overcoming him; but because Chiao used sorcery, I could not win at once. The court sent the eunuch Tso Feng to inquire into the matter, and he demanded a bribe of me. I answered, "Our military provisions are still short; how should I have spare money to give to the Emperor's messenger?" Tso Feng bore a grudge, and on his return reported to the court that I had raised high ramparts and would not fight, disheartening the troops. Therefore the court was enraged and sent the Commandant Tung Cho to take command of my troops in my place and bring me back to the capital for trial.'",narration,serious|sad|formal,initial,"chapter 1 / chapter 1. Paragraph 15 of the chapter, aligned by index and verified (16 of 29 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 卻說玄德引關、張來潁川，聽得喊殺之聲，又望見火光燭天，急引兵來時，賊已敗 散。玄德見皇甫嵩，朱雋，其道盧植之意。嵩曰：「張梁、張寶勢窮力乏，必投廣宗去 依張角。玄德可即星夜往助。」 Following segment: 三人飛馬引軍而出。張角正殺敗董卓，乘勢趕來，忽遇三人衝殺，角軍大亂，敗走 五十餘里。三人救了董卓回寨。卓問三人現居何職。玄德曰：「白身。」卓甚輕之，不 為禮。玄德出，張飛大怒曰：…",,,
clarion,sanguo-brewitt-taylor,zh-CN,en-US,,standard,"San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original with Brewitt-Taylor's 1925 translation","This is the opening of the classic Chinese historical novel Romance of the Three Kingdoms, covering the first two chapters. The text appears as narrative prose with embedded poetry, dialogue, and chapter-end cliffhanger couplets. The audience is general English-language readers of classical Chinese literature. Translators should note that this is a literary work with archaic language, formal narrative conventions, and a large cast of historical figures; consistency in names, titles, and epithets across the whole novel is essential.","Use a formal, literary register appropriate to a classic novel, with slightly archaic but readable English. Romanize Chinese names in Wade-Giles as in the 1925 Brewitt-Taylor translation (e.g., Liu Pei, Kuan Yu, Chang Fei, Ts'ao Ts'ao). Keep official titles translated consistently (e.g., Emperor, General, Prefect). Keep place names in Wade-Giles romanization. Poetry should be rendered as verse with attention to rhyme or meter where feasible. Untranslated terms should be limited to culturally specific items explained in context or notes. Use standard English punctuation and spacing. Chapter-end couplets should be rendered as verse and may be set off from prose.",,chapter-1,"Imported from San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original with Brewitt-Taylor's 1925 translation. Document 'chapter-1', 16 segments in their original order; translate them as one continuous document, not as isolated sentences.",,,,chapter-1-016,三人飛馬引軍而出。張角正殺敗董卓，乘勢趕來，忽遇三人衝殺，角軍大亂，敗走 五十餘里。三人救了董卓回寨。卓問三人現居何職。玄德曰：「白身。」卓甚輕之，不 為禮。玄德出，張飛大怒曰：「我等親赴血戰，救了這廝，他卻如此無禮﹔若不殺之， 難消我氣！」便要提刀入帳來殺董卓。正是：人情勢利古猶今，誰識英雄是白身？安得 快人如翼德，盡誅世上負心人！畢竟董卓性命如何，且看下文分解。,"The three galloped out with their troops. Chang Chiao was just then defeating Tung Cho and pursuing him with all his force, when suddenly the three fell upon him; Chiao's army was thrown into confusion and fled more than fifty li. The three rescued Tung Cho and brought him back to camp. Cho asked what offices the three held. Hsüan-te said, 'I am a common man.' Cho despised them greatly and showed them no courtesy. When Hsüan-te had gone out, Chang Fei flew into a rage, saying, 'We went ourselves into the bloody fight and saved this fellow, and yet he is so rude; if I do not kill him, my anger will never be appeased!' And he was for taking his sword and entering the tent to slay Tung Cho. Thus it was:

In every age men bow to wealth and place;
Who knows the hero in a nameless name?
Ah, for a man like I-te to efface
All faithless men and put them all to shame!

Whether Tung Cho's life was spared, we must wait for the next chapter to know.",narration,angry|serious|formal,initial,"chapter 1 / chapter 1. Paragraph 16 of the chapter, aligned by index and verified (16 of 29 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 玄德領命，遂引兵復回。到得半路，只見一簇軍馬，護送一輛檻車，車中之囚，乃 盧植也。玄德大驚，滾鞍下馬，問其緣故。植曰：「我圍張角，將次可破；因角用妖術 ，未能即勝。朝廷差黃門左豐…",,,
clarion,sanguo-brewitt-taylor,zh-CN,en-US,,standard,"San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original with Brewitt-Taylor's 1925 translation","This is the opening of the classic Chinese historical novel Romance of the Three Kingdoms, covering the first two chapters. The text appears as narrative prose with embedded poetry, dialogue, and chapter-end cliffhanger couplets. The audience is general English-language readers of classical Chinese literature. Translators should note that this is a literary work with archaic language, formal narrative conventions, and a large cast of historical figures; consistency in names, titles, and epithets across the whole novel is essential.","Use a formal, literary register appropriate to a classic novel, with slightly archaic but readable English. Romanize Chinese names in Wade-Giles as in the 1925 Brewitt-Taylor translation (e.g., Liu Pei, Kuan Yu, Chang Fei, Ts'ao Ts'ao). Keep official titles translated consistently (e.g., Emperor, General, Prefect). Keep place names in Wade-Giles romanization. Poetry should be rendered as verse with attention to rhyme or meter where feasible. Untranslated terms should be limited to culturally specific items explained in context or notes. Use standard English punctuation and spacing. Chapter-end couplets should be rendered as verse and may be set off from prose.",,chapter-2,"Imported from San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original with Brewitt-Taylor's 1925 translation. Document 'chapter-2', 6 segments in their original order; translate them as one continuous document, not as isolated sentences.",,,,chapter-2-001,中平六年，夏四月，靈帝病篤，召大將軍何進入宮，商議後事。那何進起身屠家； 因妹入宮為貴人，生皇子辯，遂立為皇后，進由是得權重任。帝又寵幸王美人，生皇子 協。何后嫉妒，鴆殺王美人。皇子協養於董太后宮中。董太后乃靈帝之母，解瀆亭侯劉 萇之妻也。初因桓帝無子，迎立解瀆亭侯之子，是為靈帝。靈帝入繼大統，遂迎養母氏 於宮中，尊為太后。,"In the sixth year of Chung-p'ing, in the fourth month of summer, the Emperor Ling being gravely ill, he summoned the General-in-Chief Ho Chin into the palace to discuss the affairs that should follow his death. Now this Ho Chin had risen from a family of butchers; because his sister entered the palace as a Favorite and bore the imperial prince Pien, she was made Empress, and Ho Chin thereby obtained power and high office. The Emperor also favored the Lady Wang, who bore the prince Hsieh. The Empress Ho, being jealous, poisoned the Lady Wang. The prince Hsieh was brought up in the palace of the Empress Dowager Tung. The Empress Dowager Tung was the mother of the Emperor Ling and the wife of Liu Ch'ang, Marquis of Chieh-tu-ting. Formerly, because the Emperor Huan had no son, the son of the Marquis of Chieh-tu-ting was brought to the throne, and he was the Emperor Ling. When the Emperor Ling succeeded to the great succession, he brought his mother to be nourished in the palace and honored her as Empress Dowager.",narration,formal|objective|serious,initial,"chapter 2 / chapter 2. Paragraph 1 of the chapter, aligned by index and verified (6 of 28 proposals accepted). Following segment: 何進聽罷，出謂眾官曰：「蹇碩設謀害我，可族滅其家。其餘不必妄加殘害。」袁 紹曰：「若不斬草除根，必為喪身之本。」進曰：「吾意已決，汝勿多言。」眾官皆退 。",,,
clarion,sanguo-brewitt-taylor,zh-CN,en-US,,standard,"San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original with Brewitt-Taylor's 1925 translation","This is the opening of the classic Chinese historical novel Romance of the Three Kingdoms, covering the first two chapters. The text appears as narrative prose with embedded poetry, dialogue, and chapter-end cliffhanger couplets. The audience is general English-language readers of classical Chinese literature. Translators should note that this is a literary work with archaic language, formal narrative conventions, and a large cast of historical figures; consistency in names, titles, and epithets across the whole novel is essential.","Use a formal, literary register appropriate to a classic novel, with slightly archaic but readable English. Romanize Chinese names in Wade-Giles as in the 1925 Brewitt-Taylor translation (e.g., Liu Pei, Kuan Yu, Chang Fei, Ts'ao Ts'ao). Keep official titles translated consistently (e.g., Emperor, General, Prefect). Keep place names in Wade-Giles romanization. Poetry should be rendered as verse with attention to rhyme or meter where feasible. Untranslated terms should be limited to culturally specific items explained in context or notes. Use standard English punctuation and spacing. Chapter-end couplets should be rendered as verse and may be set off from prose.",,chapter-2,"Imported from San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original with Brewitt-Taylor's 1925 translation. Document 'chapter-2', 6 segments in their original order; translate them as one continuous document, not as isolated sentences.",,,,chapter-2-002,何進聽罷，出謂眾官曰：「蹇碩設謀害我，可族滅其家。其餘不必妄加殘害。」袁 紹曰：「若不斬草除根，必為喪身之本。」進曰：「吾意已決，汝勿多言。」眾官皆退 。,"When Ho Chin had heard all, he came out and said to the assembled officials, 'Chien Shih plotted to do me harm; his whole family should be exterminated. The rest need not be wantonly injured.' Yüan Shao said, 'If you do not cut the grass and pull out the roots, they will surely be the cause of your ruin.' Chin replied, 'My mind is made up; say no more.' And all the officials withdrew.",dialogue,angry|serious|urgent,initial,"chapter 2 / chapter 2. Paragraph 2 of the chapter, aligned by index and verified (6 of 28 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 中平六年，夏四月，靈帝病篤，召大將軍何進入宮，商議後事。那何進起身屠家； 因妹入宮為貴人，生皇子辯，遂立為皇后，進由是得權重任。帝又寵幸王美人，生皇子 協。何后嫉妒，鴆殺王美人。… Following segment: 次日，太后命何進參錄尚書事，其餘皆封官職。董太后宣張讓等入宮商議曰：「何 進之妹，始初我抬舉他。今日他孩兒即皇帝位，內外臣僚，皆其心腹：威權太重，我將 如何？」讓奏曰：「娘娘可臨…",,,
clarion,sanguo-brewitt-taylor,zh-CN,en-US,,standard,"San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original with Brewitt-Taylor's 1925 translation","This is the opening of the classic Chinese historical novel Romance of the Three Kingdoms, covering the first two chapters. The text appears as narrative prose with embedded poetry, dialogue, and chapter-end cliffhanger couplets. The audience is general English-language readers of classical Chinese literature. Translators should note that this is a literary work with archaic language, formal narrative conventions, and a large cast of historical figures; consistency in names, titles, and epithets across the whole novel is essential.","Use a formal, literary register appropriate to a classic novel, with slightly archaic but readable English. Romanize Chinese names in Wade-Giles as in the 1925 Brewitt-Taylor translation (e.g., Liu Pei, Kuan Yu, Chang Fei, Ts'ao Ts'ao). Keep official titles translated consistently (e.g., Emperor, General, Prefect). Keep place names in Wade-Giles romanization. Poetry should be rendered as verse with attention to rhyme or meter where feasible. Untranslated terms should be limited to culturally specific items explained in context or notes. Use standard English punctuation and spacing. Chapter-end couplets should be rendered as verse and may be set off from prose.",,chapter-2,"Imported from San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original with Brewitt-Taylor's 1925 translation. Document 'chapter-2', 6 segments in their original order; translate them as one continuous document, not as isolated sentences.",,,,chapter-2-003,次日，太后命何進參錄尚書事，其餘皆封官職。董太后宣張讓等入宮商議曰：「何 進之妹，始初我抬舉他。今日他孩兒即皇帝位，內外臣僚，皆其心腹：威權太重，我將 如何？」讓奏曰：「娘娘可臨朝，垂簾聽政；封皇子協為王；加國舅董重大官，掌握軍 權；重用臣等：大事可圖矣。」,"The next day the Empress Dowager appointed Ho Chin to a post in the Imperial Secretariat, and the rest were all given official rank. The Empress Dowager Tung summoned Chang Jang and the others into the palace to take counsel, saying, 'The sister of Ho Chin — I was the one who first raised her up. Now her child sits on the imperial throne, and all the officials within and without the court are her confidants; her power is too great. What shall I do?' Chang Jang replied, 'Your Highness may hold court and administer affairs from behind the curtain; make the prince Hsieh a prince; give Tung Chung, brother of the Empress Dowager, high office and control of the army; and employ us in important posts — then great things may be compassed.'",dialogue,anxious|formal|serious,initial,"chapter 2 / chapter 2. Paragraph 3 of the chapter, aligned by index and verified (6 of 28 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 何進聽罷，出謂眾官曰：「蹇碩設謀害我，可族滅其家。其餘不必妄加殘害。」袁 紹曰：「若不斬草除根，必為喪身之本。」進曰：「吾意已決，汝勿多言。」眾官皆退 。 Following segment: 董太后大喜。次日設朝，董太后降旨，封皇子協為陳留王，董重為驃騎將軍，張讓 等共預朝政。何太后見董太后專權，於宮中設一宴，請董太后赴席。酒至半酣，何太后 起身捧盃再拜曰：「我等皆婦…",,,
clarion,sanguo-brewitt-taylor,zh-CN,en-US,,standard,"San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original with Brewitt-Taylor's 1925 translation","This is the opening of the classic Chinese historical novel Romance of the Three Kingdoms, covering the first two chapters. The text appears as narrative prose with embedded poetry, dialogue, and chapter-end cliffhanger couplets. The audience is general English-language readers of classical Chinese literature. Translators should note that this is a literary work with archaic language, formal narrative conventions, and a large cast of historical figures; consistency in names, titles, and epithets across the whole novel is essential.","Use a formal, literary register appropriate to a classic novel, with slightly archaic but readable English. Romanize Chinese names in Wade-Giles as in the 1925 Brewitt-Taylor translation (e.g., Liu Pei, Kuan Yu, Chang Fei, Ts'ao Ts'ao). Keep official titles translated consistently (e.g., Emperor, General, Prefect). Keep place names in Wade-Giles romanization. Poetry should be rendered as verse with attention to rhyme or meter where feasible. Untranslated terms should be limited to culturally specific items explained in context or notes. Use standard English punctuation and spacing. Chapter-end couplets should be rendered as verse and may be set off from prose.",,chapter-2,"Imported from San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original with Brewitt-Taylor's 1925 translation. Document 'chapter-2', 6 segments in their original order; translate them as one continuous document, not as isolated sentences.",,,,chapter-2-004,董太后大喜。次日設朝，董太后降旨，封皇子協為陳留王，董重為驃騎將軍，張讓 等共預朝政。何太后見董太后專權，於宮中設一宴，請董太后赴席。酒至半酣，何太后 起身捧盃再拜曰：「我等皆婦人也，參預朝政，非其所宜。昔呂后因握重權，宗族千口 皆被戮。今我等宜深居九重；朝廷大事，任大臣元老自行商議，此國家之幸也。願垂聽 焉。」董太后大怒曰：「汝鴆死王美人，設心嫉妒。今倚汝子為君，與汝兄何進之勢， 輒敢亂言！吾敕驃騎斷汝兄首，如反掌耳！」何后亦怒曰：「吾以好言相勸，何反怒耶 ？」董后曰：「汝家屠沽小輩，有何見識！」,"The Empress Dowager Tung was greatly pleased. The next day she held court and issued an edict making the prince Hsieh the Prince of Ch'en-liu, Tung Chung General of the Flying Cavalry, and giving Chang Jang and the others a share in the government. The Empress Dowager Ho, seeing that the Empress Dowager Tung monopolized power, gave a banquet in the palace and invited her to it. When the wine had gone halfway, the Empress Dowager Ho rose, raised her cup, and made a double obeisance, saying, 'We are both women, and it is not fitting that we should meddle in the government of the court. In former times the Empress Lü, because she grasped great power, had a thousand of her clan put to death. Now we should dwell deep within the palace; let the great affairs of state be left to the great ministers and elders to discuss among themselves — that is the good fortune of the realm. I beg you to consider it.' The Empress Dowager Tung flew into a rage, saying, 'You poisoned the Lady Wang to death; your heart is full of jealousy. Now, relying on your son's being emperor and on the power of your brother Ho Chin, you dare to speak wildly! I have but to order the General of the Flying Cavalry to cut off your brother's head, and it is as easy as turning my hand!' The Empress Ho was angry too, saying, 'I advised you with kind words; why are you angry?' The Empress Dowager Tung said, 'You are a low family of butchers and wine-sellers; what judgment have you?'",dialogue,angry|formal|rude|serious,initial,"chapter 2 / chapter 2. Paragraph 4 of the chapter, aligned by index and verified (6 of 28 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 次日，太后命何進參錄尚書事，其餘皆封官職。董太后宣張讓等入宮商議曰：「何 進之妹，始初我抬舉他。今日他孩兒即皇帝位，內外臣僚，皆其心腹：威權太重，我將 如何？」讓奏曰：「娘娘可臨… Following segment: 少頃，何進入白后，欲誅中涓。何后曰：「中官統領禁省，漢家故事。先帝新棄天 下，爾欲誅殺舊臣，非重宗廟也。」進本是沒決斷之人，聽太后言，唯唯而出。袁紹迎 問曰：「大事若何？」進曰：…",,,
clarion,sanguo-brewitt-taylor,zh-CN,en-US,,standard,"San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original with Brewitt-Taylor's 1925 translation","This is the opening of the classic Chinese historical novel Romance of the Three Kingdoms, covering the first two chapters. The text appears as narrative prose with embedded poetry, dialogue, and chapter-end cliffhanger couplets. The audience is general English-language readers of classical Chinese literature. Translators should note that this is a literary work with archaic language, formal narrative conventions, and a large cast of historical figures; consistency in names, titles, and epithets across the whole novel is essential.","Use a formal, literary register appropriate to a classic novel, with slightly archaic but readable English. Romanize Chinese names in Wade-Giles as in the 1925 Brewitt-Taylor translation (e.g., Liu Pei, Kuan Yu, Chang Fei, Ts'ao Ts'ao). Keep official titles translated consistently (e.g., Emperor, General, Prefect). Keep place names in Wade-Giles romanization. Poetry should be rendered as verse with attention to rhyme or meter where feasible. Untranslated terms should be limited to culturally specific items explained in context or notes. Use standard English punctuation and spacing. Chapter-end couplets should be rendered as verse and may be set off from prose.",,chapter-2,"Imported from San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original with Brewitt-Taylor's 1925 translation. Document 'chapter-2', 6 segments in their original order; translate them as one continuous document, not as isolated sentences.",,,,chapter-2-005,少頃，何進入白后，欲誅中涓。何后曰：「中官統領禁省，漢家故事。先帝新棄天 下，爾欲誅殺舊臣，非重宗廟也。」進本是沒決斷之人，聽太后言，唯唯而出。袁紹迎 問曰：「大事若何？」進曰：「太后不允，如之奈何？」紹曰：「可召四方英雄人士， 勒兵來京，盡誅閹豎。此時事急，不容太后不從。」進曰：「此計大妙！」便發檄至各 鎮，召赴京師。,"In a little while Ho Chin entered and told the Empress that he wished to put the eunuchs to death. The Empress Ho said, 'That the eunuchs should command the palace precincts is an old rule of the House of Han. The late Emperor has but newly left the world, and you would slay the old servants of the court — that is not to honor the ancestral temple.' Chin, who was by nature a man of no decision, on hearing the Empress Dowager's words, assented and withdrew. Yüan Shao met him and asked, 'How stands the great matter?' Chin said, 'The Empress Dowager will not consent; what is to be done?' Shao said, 'You may summon the heroes and men of valor from all quarters to bring their troops to the capital and put all the eunuchs to death. The matter presses, and the Empress Dowager cannot but consent.' Chin said, 'An excellent plan!' And he sent forth a summons to the various garrisons, calling them to the capital.",narration,anxious|serious|urgent,initial,"chapter 2 / chapter 2. Paragraph 5 of the chapter, aligned by index and verified (6 of 28 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 董太后大喜。次日設朝，董太后降旨，封皇子協為陳留王，董重為驃騎將軍，張讓 等共預朝政。何太后見董太后專權，於宮中設一宴，請董太后赴席。酒至半酣，何太后 起身捧盃再拜曰：「我等皆婦… Following segment: 主簿陳琳曰：「不可！俗云：『掩目而捕燕雀』，是自欺也。微物尚不可欺以得志 ，況國家大事乎？今將軍仗皇威，掌兵要，龍驤虎步，高下在心：若欲誅宦官，如鼓洪 爐燎毛髮耳。但當速發，行權…",,,
clarion,sanguo-brewitt-taylor,zh-CN,en-US,,standard,"San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original with Brewitt-Taylor's 1925 translation","This is the opening of the classic Chinese historical novel Romance of the Three Kingdoms, covering the first two chapters. The text appears as narrative prose with embedded poetry, dialogue, and chapter-end cliffhanger couplets. The audience is general English-language readers of classical Chinese literature. Translators should note that this is a literary work with archaic language, formal narrative conventions, and a large cast of historical figures; consistency in names, titles, and epithets across the whole novel is essential.","Use a formal, literary register appropriate to a classic novel, with slightly archaic but readable English. Romanize Chinese names in Wade-Giles as in the 1925 Brewitt-Taylor translation (e.g., Liu Pei, Kuan Yu, Chang Fei, Ts'ao Ts'ao). Keep official titles translated consistently (e.g., Emperor, General, Prefect). Keep place names in Wade-Giles romanization. Poetry should be rendered as verse with attention to rhyme or meter where feasible. Untranslated terms should be limited to culturally specific items explained in context or notes. Use standard English punctuation and spacing. Chapter-end couplets should be rendered as verse and may be set off from prose.",,chapter-2,"Imported from San kuo (Romance of the Three Kingdoms), Chinese original with Brewitt-Taylor's 1925 translation. Document 'chapter-2', 6 segments in their original order; translate them as one continuous document, not as isolated sentences.",,,,chapter-2-006,主簿陳琳曰：「不可！俗云：『掩目而捕燕雀』，是自欺也。微物尚不可欺以得志 ，況國家大事乎？今將軍仗皇威，掌兵要，龍驤虎步，高下在心：若欲誅宦官，如鼓洪 爐燎毛髮耳。但當速發，行權立斷，則天人順之﹔卻反外檄大臣，臨犯京闕，英雄聚會 ，各懷一心：所謂倒持干戈，授人以柄，功必一成，反生亂矣。」何進笑曰：「此懦夫 之見也！」傍邊一人鼓掌大笑曰：「此事易如反掌，何必多議！」視之，乃曹操也。正 是：欲除君側宵人亂，須聽朝中智士謀。不知曹操說出甚話來，且聽下文分解。,"Ch'en Lin, the Registrar, said, 'That will not do! As the saying goes, "To catch swallows and sparrows with covered eyes" is to deceive oneself. Even small creatures cannot be caught by such self-deception, much less can the great affairs of state. Now, General, you rely on the imperial majesty and hold the pivot of the army; you stride like a dragon and a tiger, and high or low is as you will. If you wish to put the eunuchs to death, it is like blowing on a great furnace to burn a hair. You should only act quickly and decide on the moment; then Heaven and man will obey you. But instead you send summonses abroad to the great ministers, to have them approach the gates of the capital, and for the heroes to assemble, each cherishing his own mind — that is what is called "holding the spear reversed and giving another the handle." The deed would surely fail, and disorder would arise instead.' Ho Chin laughed, saying, 'That is the view of a coward!' Then a man beside him clapped his hands and laughed aloud, saying, 'This matter is as easy as turning one's hand; why so much discussion?' They looked, and it was none other than Ts'ao Ts'ao. Thus it was:

Would you uproot the knaves that round the monarch throng,
You must listen to the counsels of the wise men of the court.

What Ts'ao Ts'ao said, we must hear in the next chapter.",narration,serious|urgent|formal,initial,"chapter 2 / chapter 2. Paragraph 6 of the chapter, aligned by index and verified (6 of 28 proposals accepted). Preceding segment: 少頃，何進入白后，欲誅中涓。何后曰：「中官統領禁省，漢家故事。先帝新棄天 下，爾欲誅殺舊臣，非重宗廟也。」進本是沒決斷之人，聽太后言，唯唯而出。袁紹迎 問曰：「大事若何？」進曰：…",,,