{
  "chapter-1": {
    "chapter-1-001": "On the full-moon day of the fourth month of the second year of Jianning, the Emperor held court in Wende Hall. Just as he ascended the throne, a wild wind suddenly rose from the corner of the hall, and a great green serpent flew down from the beam and coiled upon the chair. The Emperor fell in fright; attendants hurriedly helped him into the palace, and all the officials fled. In a moment the snake vanished. Suddenly came great thunder and heavy rain, with hail, which did not stop until midnight, destroying countless houses. In the second month of the fourth year of Jianning, Luoyang was shaken by earthquake; the sea overflowed, and the coastal people were all swept into the sea by great waves. In the first year of Guanghe, a hen turned into a rooster. On the first day of the sixth month, a black vapor over ten zhang flew into Wende Hall. In the seventh month of autumn, a rainbow appeared over Yutang; the cliffs of Wuyuan Mountain all crumbled. These various inauspicious signs were not of one kind only.",
    "chapter-1-002": "The Emperor issued an edict asking the assembled ministers the cause of these calamities and anomalies. Cai Yong, a Gentleman Consultant, submitted a memorial, believing that falling rainbows and hens turning into roosters were brought about by women and eunuchs meddling in government; his words were quite blunt and direct. The Emperor sighed on reading the memorial and rose to change clothes. Cao Jie secretly watched from behind and told everything to those around him. Then on some other pretext he framed Cai Yong and had him sent back to the countryside. Later Zhang Rang, Zhao Zhong, Feng Xu, Duan Gui, Cao Jie, Hou Lan, Jian Shuo, Cheng Kuang, Xia Yun, and Guo Sheng, ten men, colluded in wickedness and were known as the “Ten Regular Attendants.” The Emperor honored and trusted Zhang Rang, calling him “Foster Father”; government grew worse by the day, until the hearts of the people turned toward disorder, and bandits rose like swarms of bees.",
    "chapter-1-003": "At that time in Julu Commandery there were three brothers: one named Zhang Jiao, one Zhang Bao, and one Zhang Liang. Zhang Jiao had originally been a scholar who failed the examinations. Because he went into the mountains to gather herbs, he met an old man with blue eyes and a boyish face, holding a goosefoot staff. The old man summoned Jiao into a cave and gave him three volumes of a heavenly book, saying: “This is called the Essential Arts of Great Peace. If you obtain it, you should proclaim transformation on behalf of Heaven and save the people of the world; if you harbor disloyal thoughts, you will surely receive evil retribution.” Jiao bowed and asked his name. The old man said: “I am the Old Immortal of Nanhua.” Having spoken, he turned into a gust of clear wind and departed.",
    "chapter-1-004": "When Zhang Jiao learned that his plot had been exposed, he raised troops overnight, calling himself General of Heaven; Zhang Bao called himself General of Earth, and Zhang Liang General of Man. He proclaimed to the multitude: “Now the Han mandate is about to end, and a great sage has appeared. You should all obey Heaven's will and bring about Great Peace.” From all directions common people, wrapping yellow cloth around their heads and following Zhang Jiao in rebellion, numbered four or five hundred thousand. The rebel force was immense, and the government troops collapsed at the sight of them. He Jin memorialized the Emperor to issue an urgent edict ordering all places to prepare defenses and win merit by suppressing the rebels; at the same time he sent the Generals of the Household Lu Zhi, Huangfu Song, and Zhu Jun, each leading elite troops, to attack by three routes.",
    "chapter-1-005": "Now let us speak of one of Zhang Jiao's armies, which advanced and invaded the territory of You Province. Liu Yan, the governor of You Province, was a native of Jingling in Jiangxia and a descendant of Prince Gong of Lu of the Han. When he heard that rebel troops were about to arrive, he summoned Colonel Zou Jing to discuss plans. Jing said, “The rebel troops are many and ours are few; my lord should quickly recruit soldiers to meet the enemy.” Liu Yan approved and at once posted a proclamation recruiting volunteer troops. When the proclamation reached Zhuo County, it brought forth a hero from Zhuo County.",
    "chapter-1-006": "This man did not care much for reading; he was broad-minded and gentle, sparing of words, and did not show joy or anger on his face. He had long cherished great ambitions and loved to befriend heroes throughout the land. He was seven chi five cun tall; his ears hung to his shoulders, his hands passed his knees, his eyes could turn to see his own ears; his face was like polished jade and his lips as if painted with vermilion. He was a descendant of Liu Sheng, Prince Jing of Zhongshan, and a great-great-grandson of Emperor Jing of Han. His surname was Liu, given name Bei, style Xuande. In former times Liu Zhen, son of Liu Sheng, was enfeoffed as Marquis of Zhuolu Pavilion in the time of Emperor Wu of Han; later, because of the tribute-gold affair, he lost his marquisate, and so this branch was left in Zhuo County. Xuande's grandfather was Liu Xiong, his father Liu Hong. Liu Hong had been recommended as filial and incorrupt, had also served as an official, and died early. Xuande was orphaned young and served his mother with utmost filial piety; the family was poor, and he made a living selling straw sandals and weaving mats. His home was in Lou Sang Village of the county. To the southeast of his house there was a great mulberry tree over five zhang tall; seen from afar, it was lush and rounded like a carriage canopy. A physiognomist said, “This household will surely produce a noble person.”",
    "chapter-1-007": "Zhang Fei said, “Behind my estate there is a peach garden whose flowers are in full bloom. Tomorrow we should make sacrifice to Heaven and Earth in the garden, and the three of us shall become brothers, joining strength and heart; then we may undertake great things.” Xuande and Yunchang answered in unison, “That would be excellent.” The next day, in the peach garden, they prepared a black ox, a white horse, and other sacrificial offerings. The three burned incense, bowed twice, and made this oath: “Thinking on Liu Bei, Guan Yu, and Zhang Fei: though our surnames differ, now that we are joined as brothers, we shall unite our hearts and strength to rescue the distressed and support the endangered; above, we shall repay the state; below, we shall bring peace to the common people. We do not seek to be born in the same year, month, and day, but we ask only to die in the same year, month, and day. August Heaven and sovereign Earth, truly witness this heart. If we betray righteousness and forget gratitude, may Heaven and man alike put us to death.” When the oath was finished, Xuande was made the elder brother, Guan Yu next, and Zhang Fei the younger. After the sacrifice to Heaven and Earth, they slaughtered the ox and set out wine, gathered the brave men of the village, and obtained more than three hundred men; there in the peach garden they drank deep and got drunk. The next day they prepared weapons, but regretted only that they had no horses to ride.",
    "chapter-1-008": "Heroes reveal their talent this very day; now they test the spear, now they test the blade. At their first appearance they displayed their might; in the Threefold Division they would make their names known.",
    "chapter-1-009": "The next day, Xuande and Zou Jing led their troops forward with drums and shouts. The rebels came out to fight; Xuande led his troops in retreat. The rebels took advantage and pursued. Just as they passed the mountain ridge, the gongs sounded all at once in Xuande's army, and the two flanking forces came out together. Xuande wheeled his troops around and killed back. Attacked from three directions, the rebels collapsed in great disorder. They were pursued right to the walls of Qingzhou City, where the governor Gong Jing also led out the local militia to assist in battle. The rebels were badly defeated, and very many were slain; thus the siege of Qingzhou was lifted. Later someone wrote a poem praising Xuande:",
    "chapter-1-010": "In planning and deciding he had godlike skill; two tigers still had to yield to one dragon. At his first appearance he could leave great achievements; surely he was destined to divide the tripods though orphaned and poor.",
    "chapter-1-011": "After Gong Jing had rewarded the troops, Zou Jing wished to return. Xuande said, “I have lately heard that the General of the Household Lu Zhi is fighting the rebel leader Zhang Jiao at Guangzong. I once studied under Lu Zhi and wish to go assist him.” So Zou Jing led his troops back, while Xuande, with Guan and Zhang, led his own five hundred men to Guangzong. Arriving in Lu Zhi's camp, he entered the tent, paid his respects, and fully explained his purpose. Lu Zhi was overjoyed and kept him before the tent to await orders.",
    "chapter-1-012": "At that time Zhang Jiao's rebels numbered one hundred fifty thousand, and Lu Zhi's troops fifty thousand; they faced each other at Guangzong with no victory yet decided. Lu Zhi said to Xuande, “I am now besieging the rebels here. The rebel brothers Zhang Liang and Zhang Bao are at Yingchuan, facing Huangfu Song and Zhu Jun. You may lead your own men, and I will further aid you with a thousand government troops; go to Yingchuan to scout the situation and agree on a time to suppress them.” Xuande accepted the order and led his troops by forced night marches to Yingchuan. At that time Huangfu Song and Zhu Jun were leading troops against the rebels. The rebels fought unsuccessfully and retreated into Changshe, where they made camp relying on grass. Song and Jun planned, “The rebels have made camp amid grass; we should attack with fire.” So they ordered each soldier to bind a bundle of grass and lie hidden in ambush. That night a great wind suddenly arose. After the second watch, they set fire all at once. Song and Jun each led troops to attack the rebel camp. Flames spread to the sky; the rebels were panicked. Horses were not saddled in time, men could not put on armor, and they scattered in all directions. The slaughter continued until dawn, when Zhang Liang and Zhang Bao led the remnant troops and fled by force of arms.",
    "chapter-1-013": "Suddenly a body of troops appeared, all carrying red banners, coming straight toward them and cutting off their retreat. From their head flashed forth a general, seven chi tall, with narrow eyes and a long beard. He held the office of Cavalry Commandant and was a man of Qiao in the State of Pei: his surname was Cao, given name Cao, style Mengde. Cao's father Cao Song had originally been of the Xiahou clan; because he became the adopted son of the Regular Attendant Cao Teng, he assumed the surname Cao. Cao Song begot Cao, whose childhood name was A-Man, also called Jili. When Cao was young, he loved hunting and delighted in song and dance; he was resourceful and full of schemes. Cao had an uncle who, seeing Cao idle and unrestrained, was often angry with him and told Cao Song. Song reproved Cao. Cao suddenly thought of a plan: when he saw his uncle coming, he pretended to fall to the ground in a fit of apoplexy. His uncle, alarmed, told Song, who hurried to look; Cao was in fact quite well. Song said, “Your uncle said you had apoplexy; are you recovered now?” Cao replied, “I have never had this illness; it is only because I have lost your uncle's affection that he deceives you.” Song believed him. Afterward, whenever the uncle spoke of Cao's faults, Song would not listen. Because of this, Cao was able to indulge himself as he pleased.",
    "chapter-1-014": "Now to return to Xuande: he led Guan and Zhang to Yingchuan, heard the shouts of battle, and saw firelight illuminating the sky. He hurried his troops forward, but by the time he arrived the rebels had already been routed and scattered. Xuande met Huangfu Song and Zhu Jun and explained Lu Zhi's intention. Song said, “Zhang Liang and Zhang Bao are exhausted and at their wit's end; they will surely flee to Guangzong to join Zhang Jiao. Xuande, you should go at once by night to assist there.”",
    "chapter-1-015": "Xuande accepted the order and led his troops back. Halfway there, he saw a group of soldiers escorting a prison cart; the prisoner in the cart was Lu Zhi. Xuande was greatly shocked, slipped from his saddle, dismounted, and asked the reason. Lu Zhi said, “I was besieging Zhang Jiao and was about to defeat him; but because Jiao used sorcery, I could not win at once. The court sent the Yellow Gate official Zuo Feng to inspect the situation, and he demanded a bribe from me. I answered, ‘Our military provisions are still short; how could I have surplus money to flatter the imperial envoy?’ Zuo Feng bore a grudge and on his return memorialized the court, saying that I built high ramparts and would not fight, and that I slackened and disheartened the troops. Therefore the court was enraged and sent the General of the Household Dong Zhuo to take command of my troops in my place, and brought me back to the capital for trial.”",
    "chapter-1-016": "The three men galloped out with their troops. Zhang Jiao was just defeating Dong Zhuo and pressing the pursuit when he suddenly encountered the three charging in to kill, and Jiao's army fell into great confusion, fleeing more than fifty li. The three rescued Dong Zhuo and returned to camp. Dong Zhuo asked what offices the three held. Xuande said, “Commoners.” Dong Zhuo greatly slighted them and offered no courtesy. As Xuande left, Zhang Fei flew into a rage: “We personally went into bloody battle and saved this fellow, yet he is so rude! If I do not kill him, I cannot vent my anger!” He was about to seize his blade and enter the tent to kill Dong Zhuo. Truly: Snobbery and self-interest are the same today as in olden times; who recognizes a hero who is but a commoner? If only there were a forthright man like Yide to slay all the ingrates in the world! What became of Dong Zhuo's life after all, the following chapter will explain."
  },
  "chapter-2": {
    "chapter-2-001": "In the sixth year of Zhongping, summer, fourth month, Emperor Ling was gravely ill and summoned General-in-Chief He Jin into the palace to discuss affairs after his death. He Jin came from a butcher's family; because his younger sister entered the palace as a consort and gave birth to Prince Bian, she was made empress, and He Jin thereby gained power and high office. The Emperor also favored Lady Wang, who gave birth to Prince Xie. Empress He was jealous and poisoned Lady Wang to death. Prince Xie was raised in the palace of Empress Dowager Dong. Empress Dowager Dong was Emperor Ling's mother, the wife of Liu Chang, Marquis of Xiedu Pavilion. Originally, because Emperor Huan had no son, the son of the Marquis of Xiedu Pavilion was welcomed and made emperor, and he was Emperor Ling. When Emperor Ling succeeded to the throne, he brought his mother to the palace to be supported and honored her as Empress Dowager.",
    "chapter-2-002": "When He Jin had heard everything, he went out and said to the assembled officials, “Jian Shuo plotted to harm me; his whole clan should be exterminated. The rest need not be wantonly harmed.” Yuan Shao said, “If you do not cut the grass and pull out the roots, it will surely become the cause of your own ruin.” He Jin said, “My mind is made up; say no more.” The officials all withdrew.",
    "chapter-2-003": "The next day, the Empress Dowager appointed He Jin to participate in the affairs of the Imperial Secretariat, and the rest were all given offices. Empress Dowager Dong summoned Zhang Rang and others into the palace to discuss: “He Jin's sister—at first it was I who raised her up. Now her son has ascended the imperial throne, and all officials inside and outside are her confidants: her power is too great. What shall I do?” Zhang Rang replied, “Your Highness may hold court and govern from behind the curtain; enfeoff Prince Xie as a prince; appoint the imperial uncle Dong Zhong to a high office and let him hold military power; and give important posts to us. Then great affairs can be undertaken.”",
    "chapter-2-004": "Empress Dowager Dong was delighted. The next day a court was held, and Empress Dowager Dong issued an edict enfeoffing Prince Xie as Prince of Chenliu, Dong Zhong as General of Agile Cavalry, and allowing Zhang Rang and others to share in the government. Empress Dowager He, seeing Empress Dowager Dong monopolize power, held a banquet in the palace and invited Empress Dowager Dong to attend. When the wine was half drunk, Empress Dowager He rose, raised her cup, bowed twice, and said, “We are all women, and it is not fitting for us to meddle in court politics. Formerly Empress Lü, because she grasped great power, had a thousand members of her clan slaughtered. Now we should remain deep within the palace; let the great ministers and elders discuss court affairs themselves. This would be the country's good fortune. I beg you to consider it.” Empress Dowager Dong flew into a rage: “You poisoned Lady Wang to death out of jealousy. Now, relying on your son being emperor and on your brother He Jin's power, you dare to speak recklessly! I need only order the General of Agile Cavalry to cut off your brother's head—as easy as turning over my hand!” Empress He was also angry: “I advised you with kind words; why do you instead grow angry?” Empress Dowager Dong said, “Your family are but butchers and wine-sellers—what understanding could you have!”",
    "chapter-2-005": "After a short while, He Jin entered and reported to the Empress Dowager, wishing to execute the palace eunuchs. Empress He said, “Eunuch officials commanding the palace precincts is the established practice of the Han house. The late Emperor has but newly departed the world, and you wish to kill his old servants—that is not honoring the ancestral temple.” He Jin was by nature indecisive; hearing the Empress Dowager's words, he assented and withdrew. Yuan Shao met him and asked, “How goes the great matter?” He Jin said, “The Empress Dowager will not permit it; what can be done?” Yuan Shao said, “You may summon heroes from all quarters, order troops to the capital, and put all the eunuchs to death. The situation is urgent now; the Empress Dowager will have no choice but to comply.” He Jin said, “That plan is excellent!” He at once sent proclamations to the various garrison commands, summoning them to the capital.",
    "chapter-2-006": "Chen Lin, the chief clerk, said, “That will not do! As the saying goes, ‘Cover your eyes and catch sparrows’—that is deceiving oneself. Even small creatures cannot be caught by deceit, let alone great affairs of state. Now, General, you rely on imperial authority and hold the key to military power; you stride like a dragon and tiger, and high and low are in your heart. If you wish to execute the eunuchs, it is like blowing on a great furnace to singe a hair. You need only act quickly and decisively, exercising authority with resolution, and Heaven and man will follow you. But instead you would send proclamations to outside ministers, bringing them to the capital gates. Heroes will gather, each with a different mind: this is what is called holding the spear upside down and handing the handle to another. The deed may be accomplished, but disorder will arise in turn.” He Jin laughed: “That is the view of a coward!” Beside him a man clapped his hands and laughed aloud: “This matter is as easy as turning over one's hand; why discuss it so much?” They looked and saw it was Cao Cao. Truly: To remove the mischief of villains beside the ruler, one must heed the counsel of wise men at court. What words Cao Cao spoke, the following chapter will explain."
  }
}