msgid ""
msgstr ""
"Language: en-US\n"
"Content-Type: text/plain; charset=UTF-8\n"

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-001"
msgid "建寧二年四月望日，帝御溫德殿。方陞座，殿角狂風驟起，只見一條大青蛇，從梁 上飛將下來，蟠於椅上。帝驚倒，左右急救入宮，百官俱奔避。須臾，蛇不見了。忽然 大雷大雨，加以冰雹，落到半夜方止，壞卻房屋無數。建寧四年二月，洛陽地震；又海 水泛溢，沿海居民，盡被大浪捲入海中。光和元年，雌雞化雄。六月朔，黑氣十餘丈， 飛入溫德殿中。秋七月，有虹見於玉堂；五原山岸，盡皆崩裂。種種不祥，非止一端。"
msgstr "In the second year of Jianning, on the full moon day of the fourth month, the Emperor held court in Wende Hall. Just as he ascended the throne, a wild wind suddenly rose from a corner of the hall, and a great green serpent flew down from the beam and coiled upon the chair. The Emperor fell in fright; his attendants hurried him into the palace, and all the officials fled. In a moment the snake disappeared. Suddenly there came great thunder and rain, with hail, which did not stop until midnight and destroyed countless houses. In the second month of the fourth year of Jianning, there was an earthquake in Luoyang; the sea overflowed, and the coastal inhabitants were all swept into the sea by great waves. In the first year of Guanghe, a hen turned into a rooster. On the first day of the sixth month, a black vapor over ten zhang long flew into Wende Hall. In the seventh month of autumn, a rainbow appeared over the Jade Hall; the cliffs of Wuyuan Mountain all collapsed. These various omens were not limited to one kind."

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-002"
msgid "帝下詔問群臣以災異之由，議郎蔡邕上疏，以為蜺墮雞化，乃婦寺干政之所致，言 頗切直。帝覽奏歎息，因起更衣。曹節在後竊視，悉宣告左右。遂以他事陷邕於罪，放 歸田里。後張讓，趙忠，封諝，段珪，曹節，候覽，蹇碩，程曠，夏惲，郭勝十人朋比 為奸，號為「十常侍」。帝尊信張讓，呼為「阿父」，朝政日非，以致天下人心思亂， 盜賊蜂起。"
msgstr "The Emperor issued an edict asking the assembled ministers the cause of these calamities and anomalies. The Consultant Cai Yong submitted a memorial, holding that the fall of a rainbow and the transformation of a hen were caused by women and eunuchs meddling in government; his words were quite blunt and direct. The Emperor read the memorial and sighed, then rose to change his clothes. Cao Jie, who was behind him, secretly watched and reported everything to those about him. Then he framed Cai Yong on other charges, and Cai Yong was sent back to his village. Later, Zhang Rang, Zhao Zhong, Feng Xu, Duan Gui, Cao Jie, Hou Lan, Jian Shuo, Cheng Kuang, Xia Yun, and Guo Sheng, ten men, banded together in villainy and were called the “Ten Regular Attendants.” The Emperor respected and trusted Zhang Rang, calling him “Foster Father,” and the government grew worse day by day, until the hearts of the people turned to disorder and bandits rose like swarms of bees."

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-003"
msgid "時鉅鹿郡有兄弟三人：一名張角，一名張寶，一名張梁。那張角本是個不第秀才。 因入山採藥，遇一老人，碧眼童顏，手執藜杖，喚角至一洞中，以天書三卷授之，曰： 「此名太平要術。汝得之，當代天宣化，普救世人；若萌異心，必獲惡報。」角拜問姓 名。老人曰：「吾乃南華老仙也。」言訖，化陣清風而去。"
msgstr "At that time in Julu Commandery there were three brothers: one named Zhang Jiao, one named Zhang Bao, and one named Zhang Liang. Zhang Jiao was originally a scholar who had failed the examinations. Because he went into the mountains to gather herbs, he met an old man with blue eyes and a youthful face, holding a staff of wild pear wood. The old man called Zhang Jiao into a cave and gave him three volumes of a heavenly book, saying: “This is called The Essential Arts of Great Peace. If you obtain it, you should proclaim transformation on behalf of Heaven and save all people; if you harbor disloyal thoughts, you will surely receive evil retribution.” Zhang Jiao bowed and asked his name. The old man said: “I am the Old Immortal of Nanhua.” Having spoken, he turned into a gust of clear wind and departed."

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-004"
msgid "張角聞知事露，星夜舉兵，自稱天公將軍，─張寶稱地公將軍，張梁稱人公將軍─ 。申言於眾曰：「今漢運將終，大聖人出﹔汝等皆宜順從天意，以槳太平。」四方百姓 ，裹黃巾從張角反者，四五十萬。賊勢浩大，官軍望風而靡。何進奏帝火速降詔，令各 處備禦，討賊立功；一面遣中郎將盧植，皇甫嵩，朱雋，各引精兵，分三路討之。"
msgstr "When Zhang Jiao learned that the matter had been exposed, he raised troops by night and called himself General of Heaven—Zhang Bao called himself General of Earth, and Zhang Liang called himself General of Man. He proclaimed to the masses: “Now the fortune of Han is about to end, and a great sage has appeared; you should all obey the will of Heaven and enjoy Great Peace.” From all quarters the common people, wrapping yellow cloth around their heads, followed Zhang Jiao in rebellion, to the number of four or five hundred thousand. The rebel force was immense, and the government troops collapsed at the sight of them. He Jin memorialized the Emperor to issue an edict at once, ordering all places to prepare defenses and win merit by suppressing the rebels; at the same time he sent the Generals of the Household Lu Zhi, Huangfu Song, and Zhu Jun, each leading picked troops, to attack along three routes."

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-005"
msgid "且說張角一軍，前犯幽州界分。幽州太守劉焉，乃江夏竟陵人氏，漢魯恭王之後也 ；當時聞得賊兵將至，召校尉鄒靖計議。靖曰：「賊兵眾，我兵寡，明公宜作速招軍應 敵。」劉焉然其說，隨即出榜招募義兵。榜文行到涿縣，乃引出涿縣中一個英雄。"
msgstr "Now let us speak of one of Zhang Jiao's armies, which advanced to invade the borders of Youzhou. The governor of Youzhou, Liu Yan, was a native of Jingling in Jiangxia and a descendant of Prince Gong of Lu of the Han. When he heard that the rebel troops were about to arrive, he summoned the Commandant Zou Jing to discuss plans. Zou Jing said: “The rebels are many and our troops few. My lord should speedily recruit soldiers to meet the enemy.” Liu Yan agreed with his advice and immediately posted a proclamation to recruit volunteer troops. When the proclamation reached Zhuo County, it brought forth a hero from within that county."

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-006"
msgid "那人不甚好讀書；性寬和，寡言語，喜怒不形於色；素有大志，專好結交天下豪傑 ；生得身長七尺五寸，兩耳垂肩，雙手過膝，目能自顧其耳，面如冠玉，脣若塗脂；中 山靖王劉勝之後，漢景帝閣下玄孫﹔姓劉，名備，字玄德。昔劉勝之子劉貞，漢武時封 涿鹿亭侯，後坐酬金失侯，因此遺這一枝在涿縣。玄德祖劉雄，父劉弘。弘曾舉孝廉， 亦嘗作吏，早喪。玄德幼孤，事母至孝；家貧，販屨織蓆為業。家住本縣樓桑村。其家 之東南，有一大桑樹，高五丈餘，遙望之，童童如車蓋。相者云：「此家必出貴人。」"
msgstr "This man was not overly fond of reading; he was by nature broad and gentle, sparing of words, and did not reveal joy or anger on his face. He had long cherished great ambitions and especially loved to make friends with heroes of the realm. He was seven chi five cun tall, with ears that hung to his shoulders and hands that reached past his knees; his eyes could turn to look at his own ears; his face was like polished jade, and his lips as if painted with vermilion. He was a descendant of Liu Sheng, Prince Jing of Zhongshan, and a great-great-grandson of Emperor Jing of Han; his surname was Liu, his given name Bei, his courtesy name Xuande. Formerly, Liu Zhen, son of Liu Sheng, had been enfeoffed in the reign of Emperor Wu of Han as Marquis of Zhuolu Pavilion, but later lost his marquisate for a deficiency in the tribute gold; thus this branch of the family was left in Zhuo County. Xuande's grandfather was Liu Xiong, and his father Liu Hong. Liu Hong had once been recommended as a filial and incorruptible and had also served as an official, but died early. Xuande was orphaned young and served his mother with utmost filial piety; the family was poor, and he made a living selling straw sandals and weaving mats. He lived in Lousang Village of the county. To the southeast of his house stood a great mulberry tree more than five zhang tall; seen from afar it was dense and rounded like a carriage canopy. A physiognomist said: “This household will surely produce a man of honor.”"

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-007"
msgid "飛曰：「吾莊後有一桃園，花開正盛；明日當於園中祭告天地，我三人結為兄弟， 協力同心，然後可圖大事。」玄德、雲長、齊聲應曰：「如此甚好。」次日，於桃園中 ，備下烏牛白馬祭禮等項，三人焚香，再拜而說誓曰：「念劉備、關羽、張飛，雖然異 姓，既結為兄弟，則同心協力，救困扶危；上報國家，下安黎庶；不求同年同月同日生 ，但願同年同月同日死。皇天后土，實鑒此心。背義忘恩，天人共戮。」誓畢，拜玄德 為兄，關羽次之，張飛為弟。祭罷天地，復宰牛設酒，聚鄉中勇士，得三百餘人，就桃 園中痛飲一醉。來日收拾軍器，但恨無馬匹可乘。"
msgstr "Fei said: “Behind my manor there is a peach garden whose flowers are in full bloom. Tomorrow we should sacrifice to Heaven and Earth in the garden, and the three of us shall become brothers, joining strength and heart as one; then we may undertake great matters.” Xuande and Yunchang answered in unison: “That would be excellent.” The next day, in the peach garden, they prepared a black ox, a white horse, and other sacrificial offerings. The three burned incense, bowed twice, and made this oath: “Thinking on Liu Bei, Guan Yu, and Zhang Fei: though of different surnames, now that we are joined as brothers, we shall be of one heart and united strength, rescuing the distressed and supporting those in peril; above, we shall repay the state; below, we shall bring peace to the common people. We do not seek to be born in the same year, month, and day, but we ask to die in the same year, month, and day. August Heaven and sovereign Earth, truly bear witness to this heart. If we betray righteousness and forget gratitude, may Heaven and man alike put us to death.” When the oath was finished, they revered Xuande as the elder brother, Guan Yu next, and Zhang Fei as the younger brother. After the sacrifice to Heaven and Earth, they slaughtered the ox and set out wine, gathered the brave men of the village, and got more than three hundred; there in the peach garden they drank deeply until drunk. The next day they prepared weapons, but regretted only that they had no horses to ride."

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-008"
msgid "英雄發穎在今朝，一試矛兮一試刀。初出便將威力展，三分好把姓名標。"
msgstr "The hero's brilliance shines forth today; once he tests the spear, once the blade. At his first appearing he displays his might, and in the Threefold Division his name shall be marked."

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-009"
msgid "次日，玄德與鄒靖，引軍鼓譟而進。賊眾迎戰，玄德引軍便退。賊眾乘勢追趕，方 過山嶺，玄德軍中一齊鳴金，左右兩軍齊出，玄德麾軍回身復殺。三路夾攻，賊眾大潰 。直趕至青州城下，太守龔景亦率民兵出城助戰。賊勢大敗，剿戮極多，遂解青州之圍 。後人有詩讚玄德曰："
msgstr "The next day, Xuande and Zou Jing led their troops forward with drums and shouts. The rebels came out to fight, and Xuande led his troops in retreat. The rebels took advantage of the situation and pursued; just as they crossed the mountain ridge, the gongs sounded in Xuande's army, and the two flanking forces came out together. Xuande turned his troops about and attacked again. Caught in a three-way pincer, the rebels utterly collapsed. They were pursued right to the walls of Qingzhou, where the governor Gong Jing also led out the local militia to assist in battle. The rebels were badly defeated, and great numbers were killed; thus the siege of Qingzhou was lifted. Later generations had a poem praising Xuande:"

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-010"
msgid "運籌決算有神功，二虎還須遜一龍。初出便能垂偉績，自應分鼎在孤窮。"
msgstr "In planning and deciding, he had godlike skill; even two tigers must yield to one dragon. At his first appearance he could leave great achievements; surely he was destined to divide the tripods despite loneliness and poverty."

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-011"
msgid "龔景犒軍畢，鄒靖欲回。玄德曰：「近聞中郎將盧植與賊首張角戰於廣宗，備昔曾 師事盧植，欲往助之。」於是鄒靖引軍自回，玄德與關、張引本部五百人投廣宗來。至 盧植軍中，入帳施禮，具道來意。盧植大喜，留在帳前聽調。"
msgstr "After Gong Jing had rewarded the troops, Zou Jing wished to return. Xuande said: “I have recently heard that General of the Household Lu Zhi is fighting the rebel leader Zhang Jiao at Guangzong. I once studied under Lu Zhi, and I wish to go assist him.” So Zou Jing led his troops back, while Xuande, with Guan and Zhang, led his own five hundred men to Guangzong. Arriving in Lu Zhi's camp, he entered the tent, paid his respects, and explained his purpose. Lu Zhi was delighted and kept him before the tent to await orders."

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-012"
msgid "時張角賊眾十五萬，植兵五萬，相拒於廣宗，未見勝負。植謂玄德曰：「我今圍賊 在此，賊弟張梁，張寶在潁川，與皇甫嵩、朱雋對壘。汝可引本部人馬，我更助汝一千 官軍，前去潁川打探消息，約期剿捕。」玄德領命，引軍星夜投潁川來。時皇甫嵩、朱 雋領軍拒賊，賊戰不利，退入長社，依草結營。嵩與雋計曰：「賊依草結營，當用火攻 之。」遂令軍士，每人束草一把，暗地埋伏。其夜大風忽起。二更以後，一齊縱火，嵩 與雋各引兵攻擊賊寨，火燄張天，賊眾驚慌，馬不及鞍，人不及甲，四散奔走。殺到天 明，張梁、張寶引敗殘軍士，奪路而走。"
msgstr "At that time Zhang Jiao's rebel host numbered one hundred and fifty thousand, and Lu Zhi had fifty thousand troops; they faced each other at Guangzong, with no victory yet decided. Lu Zhi said to Xuande: “I am now besieging the rebels here. The rebel brothers Zhang Liang and Zhang Bao are at Yingchuan, facing Huangfu Song and Zhu Jun. You may lead your own troops, and I will further aid you with a thousand government soldiers; go to Yingchuan to reconnoiter and set a time to suppress them.” Xuande accepted the order and led his troops by forced night marches to Yingchuan. At that time Huangfu Song and Zhu Jun were leading troops against the rebels. The rebels fought unsuccessfully and retreated into Changshe, where they made camp relying on grass. Song and Jun plotted: “The rebels have camped amid grass; we should attack them with fire.” So they ordered the soldiers each to bundle a sheaf of grass and lie in ambush in secret. That night a great wind suddenly arose. After the second watch, they set fire all together. Song and Jun each led troops to attack the rebel camp. The flames reached the sky, and the rebels were thrown into panic; horses were not saddled, men were not armored, and they scattered in all directions. They were slaughtering until dawn, when Zhang Liang and Zhang Bao led the remnants of their defeated troops and fought their way out."

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-013"
msgid "忽見一彪軍馬，盡打紅旗，當頭來到，截往去路。為首閃出一將，身長七尺，細眼 長髯；官拜騎都尉；沛國譙郡人也：姓曹，名操，字孟德。操父曹嵩，本姓夏侯氏；因 為中常侍曹騰之養子，故冒姓曹。曹嵩生操，小字阿瞞，一名吉利。操幼時，好游獵， 喜歌舞；有權謀，多機變。操有叔父，見操游蕩無度，嘗怒之，言於曹嵩。嵩責操。操 忽心生一計：見叔父來，詐倒於地，作中風之狀。叔父驚告嵩，嵩急視之，操故無恙。 嵩曰：「叔言汝中風，今己愈乎？」操曰：「兒自來無此病；因失愛於叔父，故見罔耳 。」嵩信其言。後叔父但言操過，嵩並不聽。因此，操得恣意放蕩。"
msgstr "Suddenly they saw a body of cavalry, all with red banners, coming straight at them and blocking their way. From their head flashed forth a general, seven chi tall, with narrow eyes and a long beard; his office was Cavalry Commandant; he was a man of Qiao County in the Kingdom of Pei: his surname Cao, given name Cao, courtesy name Mengde. Cao's father Cao Song had originally borne the surname Xiahou; because he was the adopted son of the Palace Attendant Cao Teng, he assumed the surname Cao. Cao Song begot Cao, whose childhood name was A-Man, and who was also called Jili. When Cao was young, he loved hunting and delighted in song and dance; he was resourceful and full of cunning. Cao had an uncle who, seeing Cao idle and dissolute without restraint, was often angry with him and reported him to Cao Song. Song reproved Cao. Cao suddenly hit upon a plan: when he saw his uncle coming, he pretended to collapse to the ground, feigning the symptoms of a stroke. His uncle, alarmed, told Song, and Song hurried to look at him; Cao was in fact quite well. Song said: “Your uncle said you had a stroke; are you now recovered?” Cao said: “I have never had such an illness; because I have lost your uncle's affection, he deceives you about me.” Song believed his words. Afterward, whenever the uncle spoke of Cao's faults, Song did not listen. Because of this, Cao was able to indulge himself at will."

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-014"
msgid "卻說玄德引關、張來潁川，聽得喊殺之聲，又望見火光燭天，急引兵來時，賊已敗 散。玄德見皇甫嵩，朱雋，其道盧植之意。嵩曰：「張梁、張寶勢窮力乏，必投廣宗去 依張角。玄德可即星夜往助。」"
msgstr "Now to return to Xuande: leading Guan and Zhang, he came to Yingchuan. Hearing the shouts of slaughter and seeing firelight lighting the sky, he hurried his troops forward, but by then the rebels had already scattered in defeat. Xuande met Huangfu Song and Zhu Jun and explained Lu Zhi's intention. Song said: “Zhang Liang and Zhang Bao are exhausted and at the end of their strength; they will surely flee to Guangzong to join Zhang Jiao. Xuande, you should go at once by night to assist there.”"

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-015"
msgid "玄德領命，遂引兵復回。到得半路，只見一簇軍馬，護送一輛檻車，車中之囚，乃 盧植也。玄德大驚，滾鞍下馬，問其緣故。植曰：「我圍張角，將次可破；因角用妖術 ，未能即勝。朝廷差黃門左豐前來體探，問我索取賄賂。我答曰：『軍糧尚缺，安有餘 錢奉承天使？』左豐挾恨，回奏朝廷，說我高壘不戰，惰慢軍心；因此朝廷震怒，遣中 郎將董卓來代將我兵，取我回京問罪。」"
msgstr "Xuande accepted the order and led his troops back. Halfway there, he saw a cluster of soldiers escorting a prison cart; the prisoner in the cart was Lu Zhi. Xuande was greatly shocked; he slipped from the saddle, dismounted, and asked the reason. Lu Zhi said: “I was besieging Zhang Jiao and was about to defeat him; but because Jiao used sorcery, I could not win at once. The court sent the Yellow Gate official Zuo Feng to inspect, and he demanded a bribe from me. I answered: ‘Our military grain is still short; how could I have surplus money to flatter the imperial envoy?’ Zuo Feng bore a grudge, and on his return memorialized the court that I had built high ramparts and would not fight, slackening the morale of the troops. Therefore the court was enraged and sent General of the Household Dong Zhuo to take command of my troops in my place and bring me back to the capital for trial.”"

msgctxt "chapter-1.chapter-1-016"
msgid "三人飛馬引軍而出。張角正殺敗董卓，乘勢趕來，忽遇三人衝殺，角軍大亂，敗走 五十餘里。三人救了董卓回寨。卓問三人現居何職。玄德曰：「白身。」卓甚輕之，不 為禮。玄德出，張飛大怒曰：「我等親赴血戰，救了這廝，他卻如此無禮﹔若不殺之， 難消我氣！」便要提刀入帳來殺董卓。正是：人情勢利古猶今，誰識英雄是白身？安得 快人如翼德，盡誅世上負心人！畢竟董卓性命如何，且看下文分解。"
msgstr "The three men galloped out with their troops. Zhang Jiao was just defeating Dong Zhuo and pressing his advantage in pursuit, when suddenly he encountered the three charging and killing; Jiao's army fell into great confusion and fled more than fifty li. The three rescued Dong Zhuo and returned to camp. Dong Zhuo asked what offices the three held. Xuande said: “Commoner.” Dong Zhuo greatly slighted them and offered no courtesy. As Xuande went out, Zhang Fei flew into a rage and said: “We went personally into bloody battle and saved this fellow, yet he is so rude; if I do not kill him, my anger will never be appeased!” He was about to seize his blade and enter the tent to kill Dong Zhuo. Thus it is: Human feelings favor power and profit, in ancient times as now; who recognizes a hero when he is a commoner? If only there were a forthright man like Yide to slaughter all the ungrateful in the world! What became of Dong Zhuo's life? Look to the next chapter for the explanation."

msgctxt "chapter-2.chapter-2-001"
msgid "中平六年，夏四月，靈帝病篤，召大將軍何進入宮，商議後事。那何進起身屠家； 因妹入宮為貴人，生皇子辯，遂立為皇后，進由是得權重任。帝又寵幸王美人，生皇子 協。何后嫉妒，鴆殺王美人。皇子協養於董太后宮中。董太后乃靈帝之母，解瀆亭侯劉 萇之妻也。初因桓帝無子，迎立解瀆亭侯之子，是為靈帝。靈帝入繼大統，遂迎養母氏 於宮中，尊為太后。"
msgstr "In the sixth year of Zhongping, in the fourth month of summer, Emperor Ling was gravely ill. He summoned the Great General He Jin into the palace to discuss affairs after his death. He Jin had risen from a butcher's family; because his sister entered the palace as a consort and bore the prince Bian, she was made empress, and He Jin thereby gained power and high office. The Emperor also favored the Lady Wang, who bore Prince Xie. Empress He was jealous and poisoned Lady Wang. Prince Xie was raised in the palace of Empress Dowager Dong. Empress Dowager Dong was Emperor Ling's mother, wife of Liu Chang, Marquis of Xiedu Pavilion. Formerly, because Emperor Huan had no son, Liu Chang's son was welcomed and made Emperor Ling. When Emperor Ling succeeded to the imperial line, he brought his mother into the palace to be cared for and honored her as Empress Dowager."

msgctxt "chapter-2.chapter-2-002"
msgid "何進聽罷，出謂眾官曰：「蹇碩設謀害我，可族滅其家。其餘不必妄加殘害。」袁 紹曰：「若不斬草除根，必為喪身之本。」進曰：「吾意已決，汝勿多言。」眾官皆退 。"
msgstr "When He Jin had heard all, he went out and said to the assembled officials: “Jian Shuo plotted to harm me; his whole clan should be exterminated. The rest need not be wantonly harmed.” Yuan Shao said: “If you do not cut the grass and pull out the roots, it will surely become the cause of your ruin.” He Jin said: “My mind is made up; say no more.” The officials all withdrew."

msgctxt "chapter-2.chapter-2-003"
msgid "次日，太后命何進參錄尚書事，其餘皆封官職。董太后宣張讓等入宮商議曰：「何 進之妹，始初我抬舉他。今日他孩兒即皇帝位，內外臣僚，皆其心腹：威權太重，我將 如何？」讓奏曰：「娘娘可臨朝，垂簾聽政；封皇子協為王；加國舅董重大官，掌握軍 權；重用臣等：大事可圖矣。」"
msgstr "The next day, the Empress Dowager ordered He Jin to participate in the affairs of the Imperial Secretariat, and the rest were all given official posts. Empress Dowager Dong summoned Zhang Rang and others into the palace for discussion, saying: “He Jin's sister—I was the one who first raised her up. Now her child has ascended the imperial throne, and all the officials inside and outside are her confidants; her power is too great. What shall I do?” Zhang Rang replied: “Your Highness may attend court and hear government from behind a curtain; enfeoff Prince Xie as a king; give the Empress Dowager's brother Dong Zhong a high office and control of military power; and employ us greatly: then great matters may be planned.”"

msgctxt "chapter-2.chapter-2-004"
msgid "董太后大喜。次日設朝，董太后降旨，封皇子協為陳留王，董重為驃騎將軍，張讓 等共預朝政。何太后見董太后專權，於宮中設一宴，請董太后赴席。酒至半酣，何太后 起身捧盃再拜曰：「我等皆婦人也，參預朝政，非其所宜。昔呂后因握重權，宗族千口 皆被戮。今我等宜深居九重；朝廷大事，任大臣元老自行商議，此國家之幸也。願垂聽 焉。」董太后大怒曰：「汝鴆死王美人，設心嫉妒。今倚汝子為君，與汝兄何進之勢， 輒敢亂言！吾敕驃騎斷汝兄首，如反掌耳！」何后亦怒曰：「吾以好言相勸，何反怒耶 ？」董后曰：「汝家屠沽小輩，有何見識！」"
msgstr "Empress Dowager Dong was greatly pleased. The next day, when court was held, she issued an edict enfeoffing Prince Xie as Prince of Chenliu, Dong Zhong as General of Agile Cavalry, and allowing Zhang Rang and others to participate in court affairs. Empress Dowager He, seeing Empress Dowager Dong monopolize power, prepared a banquet in the palace and invited Empress Dowager Dong to attend. When the wine was half drunk, Empress Dowager He rose, holding a cup, bowed twice, and said: “We are all women, and it is not fitting for us to meddle in court affairs. Formerly, because Empress Lü grasped great power, a thousand members of her clan were slaughtered. Now we should dwell deeply within the ninefold palace; let the great ministers and elders discuss court affairs among themselves—this would be the state's good fortune. I beg you to condescend to hear me.” Empress Dowager Dong flew into a rage and said: “You poisoned Lady Wang to death, your heart is full of jealousy. Now, relying on your son being emperor and on the power of your brother He Jin, you dare to speak wildly! I need only order the General of Agile Cavalry to cut off your brother's head—it would be as easy as turning over my hand!” Empress Dowager He also angrily said: “I advised you with kind words; why do you instead grow angry?” Empress Dowager Dong said: “Your family are but butchers and wine-sellers, petty folk—what insight could you have?”"

msgctxt "chapter-2.chapter-2-005"
msgid "少頃，何進入白后，欲誅中涓。何后曰：「中官統領禁省，漢家故事。先帝新棄天 下，爾欲誅殺舊臣，非重宗廟也。」進本是沒決斷之人，聽太后言，唯唯而出。袁紹迎 問曰：「大事若何？」進曰：「太后不允，如之奈何？」紹曰：「可召四方英雄人士， 勒兵來京，盡誅閹豎。此時事急，不容太后不從。」進曰：「此計大妙！」便發檄至各 鎮，召赴京師。"
msgstr "After a short while, He Jin entered and reported to the Empress Dowager, wishing to execute the palace eunuchs. Empress Dowager He said: “Eunuchs commanding the forbidden palace is the established practice of the Han house. The late Emperor has but newly left the world, and you wish to kill his old servants—this is not to honor the ancestral temple.” He Jin was by nature an irresolute man; hearing the Empress Dowager's words, he assented and withdrew. Yuan Shao met him and asked: “How goes the great matter?” He Jin said: “The Empress Dowager will not permit it; what can be done?” Yuan Shao said: “You may summon heroes from all quarters, ordering them to bring troops to the capital and put all the eunuchs to death. At this urgent time, the Empress Dowager will have no choice but to comply.” He Jin said: “This plan is excellent!” So he sent out proclamations to the various garrisons, summoning them to the capital."

msgctxt "chapter-2.chapter-2-006"
msgid "主簿陳琳曰：「不可！俗云：『掩目而捕燕雀』，是自欺也。微物尚不可欺以得志 ，況國家大事乎？今將軍仗皇威，掌兵要，龍驤虎步，高下在心：若欲誅宦官，如鼓洪 爐燎毛髮耳。但當速發，行權立斷，則天人順之﹔卻反外檄大臣，臨犯京闕，英雄聚會 ，各懷一心：所謂倒持干戈，授人以柄，功必一成，反生亂矣。」何進笑曰：「此懦夫 之見也！」傍邊一人鼓掌大笑曰：「此事易如反掌，何必多議！」視之，乃曹操也。正 是：欲除君側宵人亂，須聽朝中智士謀。不知曹操說出甚話來，且聽下文分解。"
msgstr "The Chief Clerk Chen Lin said: “That will not do! As the saying goes, ‘Cover your eyes and catch swallows’—that is self-deception. Even small creatures cannot be taken by deceit and made to serve one's will, much less the great affairs of state. Now, General, you rely on the imperial majesty and hold the essentials of military power; you stride like a dragon and pace like a tiger, and high and low are in your heart. If you wish to execute the eunuchs, it would be like blowing on a great furnace to singe a hair. You need only act quickly, exercise authority, and decide at once; then Heaven and man will follow you. But instead you send proclamations to outside ministers, bringing them to encroach on the capital gates. Heroes will gather, each with a different mind: this is what is called holding the spear and dagger reversed, giving the handle to another. The enterprise will surely fail, and disorder will arise instead.” He Jin laughed and said: “That is the view of a coward!” A man beside him clapped his hands and laughed loudly, saying: “This matter is as easy as turning over one's hand; why discuss it so much?” They looked—it was Cao Cao. Thus it is: If you would remove the petty men around the ruler and their disorder, you must heed the counsel of the wise men at court. What Cao Cao said, listen to the next chapter for the explanation."