```yaml
header:
  namespace: clarion
  clan: sanguo-brewitt-taylor
  source-language: zh-CN
  target-language: en-US
groups:
- path: chapter-1
  entries:
  - id: chapter-1-001
    source: 建寧二年四月望日，帝御溫德殿。方陞座，殿角狂風驟起，只見一條大青蛇，從梁 上飛將下來，蟠於椅上。帝驚倒，左右急救入宮，百官俱奔避。須臾，蛇不見了。忽然
      大雷大雨，加以冰雹，落到半夜方止，壞卻房屋無數。建寧四年二月，洛陽地震；又海 水泛溢，沿海居民，盡被大浪捲入海中。光和元年，雌雞化雄。六月朔，黑氣十餘丈，
      飛入溫德殿中。秋七月，有虹見於玉堂；五原山岸，盡皆崩裂。種種不祥，非止一端。
    target: >-
      In the fourth month of the second year of Jian Ning, on the full-moon day, the Emperor held court in the Wende Hall. Just as he ascended the throne, a violent wind suddenly rose from a corner of the hall, and a great green serpent flew down from the beam and coiled upon the chair. The Emperor fell over in fright; his attendants hurried him into the palace, and all the officials fled. In a moment the serpent vanished. Suddenly came great thunder and rain, together with hail, which did not stop until midnight and destroyed countless houses. In the second month of the fourth year of Jian Ning, an earthquake struck Luoyang; the sea overflowed, and the coastal people were all swept into the sea by the great waves. In the first year of Guang He, a hen turned into a cock. On the first day of the sixth month, a black vapor more than ten zhang long flew into the Wende Hall. In the seventh month of autumn, a rainbow appeared over the Jade Hall; the cliffs of Wuyuan Mountain all collapsed. These various omens of misfortune were not confined to one kind alone.
  - id: chapter-1-002
    source: 帝下詔問群臣以災異之由，議郎蔡邕上疏，以為蜺墮雞化，乃婦寺干政之所致，言 頗切直。帝覽奏歎息，因起更衣。曹節在後竊視，悉宣告左右。遂以他事陷邕於罪，放
      歸田里。後張讓，趙忠，封諝，段珪，曹節，候覽，蹇碩，程曠，夏惲，郭勝十人朋比 為奸，號為「十常侍」。帝尊信張讓，呼為「阿父」，朝政日非，以致天下人心思亂，
      盜賊蜂起。
    target: >-
      The Emperor issued an edict asking the ministers the cause of these calamities and anomalies. The Gentleman Consultant Cai Yong submitted a memorial, saying that falling rainbows and the transformation of hens were caused by women and eunuchs meddling in government, and his words were quite blunt and direct. When the Emperor read the memorial he sighed, and rose to change his clothes. Cao Jie, who was behind him, secretly watched and told everything to those around him. Then he had Cai Yong framed on other charges and sent back to his fields. Afterwards Zhang Rang, Zhao Zhong, Feng Xu, Duan Gui, Cao Jie, Hou Lan, Jian Shuo, Cheng Kuang, Xia Yun, and Guo Sheng, ten men, banded together for wickedness, and were called the "Ten Regular Attendants." The Emperor honored and trusted Zhang Rang, calling him "Foster Father," and the government grew daily worse, until men's hearts turned toward disorder and bandits swarmed like bees.
  - id: chapter-1-003
    source: 時鉅鹿郡有兄弟三人：一名張角，一名張寶，一名張梁。那張角本是個不第秀才。 因入山採藥，遇一老人，碧眼童顏，手執藜杖，喚角至一洞中，以天書三卷授之，曰：
      「此名太平要術。汝得之，當代天宣化，普救世人；若萌異心，必獲惡報。」角拜問姓 名。老人曰：「吾乃南華老仙也。」言訖，化陣清風而去。
    target: >-
      At that time in the county of Jujun there were three brothers: one named Zhang Jiao, one Zhang Bao, and one Zhang Liang. Zhang Jiao was originally a failed scholar. Because he went into the mountains to gather herbs, he met an old man with blue eyes and a boyish face, holding a staff of wild pear wood. The old man called Zhang Jiao into a cave and gave him three volumes of a heavenly book, saying: "This is called the Essential Art of Great Peace. If you obtain it, you must proclaim the transformation of Heaven in its stead and save all people; if you conceive disloyal thoughts, you will surely receive evil retribution." Zhang Jiao bowed and asked his name. The old man said: "I am the Old Immortal of Nanhua." Having spoken, he turned into a gust of clear wind and departed.
  - id: chapter-1-004
    source: 張角聞知事露，星夜舉兵，自稱天公將軍，─張寶稱地公將軍，張梁稱人公將軍─ 。申言於眾曰：「今漢運將終，大聖人出﹔汝等皆宜順從天意，以槳太平。」四方百姓
      ，裹黃巾從張角反者，四五十萬。賊勢浩大，官軍望風而靡。何進奏帝火速降詔，令各 處備禦，討賊立功；一面遣中郎將盧植，皇甫嵩，朱雋，各引精兵，分三路討之。
    target: >-
      When Zhang Jiao learned that the matter had been exposed, he raised troops overnight, calling himself General of Heaven; Zhang Bao was called General of Earth, and Zhang Liang General of Man. He proclaimed to the multitude: "Now the fortune of Han is about to end, and a great sage has appeared; you should all obey the will of Heaven and enjoy the Great Peace." Throughout the four directions the common people, wrapping yellow cloths around their heads and following Zhang Jiao in rebellion, numbered four or five hundred thousand. The rebel power was immense, and the government troops fled before their wind. He Jin memorialized the Emperor to issue an edict quickly, ordering all places to prepare defenses and win merit by suppressing the rebels; at the same time he sent the Commandants of the Imperial Guard Lu Zhi, Huangfu Song, and Zhu Jun, each leading picked troops, to attack in three separate columns.
  - id: chapter-1-005
    source: 且說張角一軍，前犯幽州界分。幽州太守劉焉，乃江夏竟陵人氏，漢魯恭王之後也 ；當時聞得賊兵將至，召校尉鄒靖計議。靖曰：「賊兵眾，我兵寡，明公宜作速招軍應
      敵。」劉焉然其說，隨即出榜招募義兵。榜文行到涿縣，乃引出涿縣中一個英雄。
    target: >-
      Let us speak of one of Zhang Jiao's armies, which first invaded the borders of Youzhou. The governor of Youzhou, Liu Yan, was a man of Jingling in Jiangxia, a descendant of Prince Gong of Lu of the Han. When he heard the rebel troops were about to arrive, he summoned the Commandant Zou Jing to discuss plans. Zou Jing said: "The rebels are many and our troops are few. My lord should quickly raise troops to meet the enemy." Liu Yan approved his advice and at once posted a proclamation calling for volunteers. The proclamation reached Zhuoxian, and thereby brought forth a hero from Zhuoxian.
  - id: chapter-1-006
    source: 那人不甚好讀書；性寬和，寡言語，喜怒不形於色；素有大志，專好結交天下豪傑 ；生得身長七尺五寸，兩耳垂肩，雙手過膝，目能自顧其耳，面如冠玉，脣若塗脂；中
      山靖王劉勝之後，漢景帝閣下玄孫﹔姓劉，名備，字玄德。昔劉勝之子劉貞，漢武時封 涿鹿亭侯，後坐酬金失侯，因此遺這一枝在涿縣。玄德祖劉雄，父劉弘。弘曾舉孝廉，
      亦嘗作吏，早喪。玄德幼孤，事母至孝；家貧，販屨織蓆為業。家住本縣樓桑村。其家 之東南，有一大桑樹，高五丈餘，遙望之，童童如車蓋。相者云：「此家必出貴人。」
    target: >-
      This man was not very fond of reading; he was broad-minded and gentle, sparing of words, showing neither joy nor anger on his face; he had long cherished great ambitions and loved to make friends with heroes throughout the land. He was seven feet five inches tall, with ears that hung to his shoulders and hands that reached below his knees; he could turn his eyes and see his own ears. His face was like polished jade, his lips as if painted with vermilion. He was a descendant of Liu Sheng, Prince Jing of Zhongshan, and a great-great-grandson of Emperor Jing of Han. His surname was Liu, his name Bei, his style Xuande. Formerly Liu Zhen, son of Liu Sheng, had been made Marquis of Zhuolu Pavilion in the time of Emperor Wu of Han; later he lost his marquisate because of a matter of tribute money, and thus this branch was left in Zhuoxian. Xuande's grandfather was Liu Xiong; his father Liu Hong. Liu Hong had been recommended as Filial and Incorrupt and had also served as an official, but died early. Xuande was orphaned young and served his mother with utmost filial piety. The family was poor, and he made a living selling straw sandals and weaving mats. His home was in Lou Sang Village of the county. To the southeast of his house there was a great mulberry tree, more than five zhang tall; seen from afar, it was luxuriant like a carriage canopy. A physiognomist said: "This family will surely produce a noble person."
  - id: chapter-1-007
    source: 飛曰：「吾莊後有一桃園，花開正盛；明日當於園中祭告天地，我三人結為兄弟， 協力同心，然後可圖大事。」玄德、雲長、齊聲應曰：「如此甚好。」次日，於桃園中
      ，備下烏牛白馬祭禮等項，三人焚香，再拜而說誓曰：「念劉備、關羽、張飛，雖然異 姓，既結為兄弟，則同心協力，救困扶危；上報國家，下安黎庶；不求同年同月同日生
      ，但願同年同月同日死。皇天后土，實鑒此心。背義忘恩，天人共戮。」誓畢，拜玄德 為兄，關羽次之，張飛為弟。祭罷天地，復宰牛設酒，聚鄉中勇士，得三百餘人，就桃
      園中痛飲一醉。來日收拾軍器，但恨無馬匹可乘。
    target: >-
      Zhang Fei said: "Behind my farm there is a peach garden, and the flowers are in full bloom. Tomorrow we should make sacrifice to Heaven and Earth in the garden, and the three of us shall become brothers, joining strength and heart; then we may undertake great things." Xuande and Yunchang answered together: "That would be excellent." The next day, in the peach garden, they prepared a black ox, a white horse, and other sacrificial offerings. The three burned incense, bowed twice, and made this oath: "We, Liu Bei, Guan Yu, and Zhang Fei, though of different surnames, have become brothers. We shall unite our hearts and strength to rescue the distressed and support those in peril; above, to repay the state; below, to bring peace to the people. We do not seek to be born in the same year, month, and day, but we ask to die in the same year, month, and day. August Heaven and sovereign Earth, truly witness this heart. If we betray righteousness and forget gratitude, may Heaven and man alike slay us." When the oath was finished, they bowed to Xuande as the elder brother, Guan Yu next, and Zhang Fei as the younger. After the sacrifice to Heaven and Earth, they slaughtered the ox and set out wine, gathered brave men of the village, and got more than three hundred men. There in the peach garden they drank deeply until drunk. The next day they prepared weapons, but regretted only that they had no horses to ride.
  - id: chapter-1-008
    source: 英雄發穎在今朝，一試矛兮一試刀。初出便將威力展，三分好把姓名標。
    target: >-
      The heroes rise this very day; / One tries the spear, one tries the blade. / At their first coming they display their might; / In the Three Kingdoms their names shall shine bright.
  - id: chapter-1-009
    source: 次日，玄德與鄒靖，引軍鼓譟而進。賊眾迎戰，玄德引軍便退。賊眾乘勢追趕，方 過山嶺，玄德軍中一齊鳴金，左右兩軍齊出，玄德麾軍回身復殺。三路夾攻，賊眾大潰
      。直趕至青州城下，太守龔景亦率民兵出城助戰。賊勢大敗，剿戮極多，遂解青州之圍 。後人有詩讚玄德曰：
    target: >-
      The next day, Xuande and Zou Jing led their troops forward with beating drums and shouting. The rebels came out to fight, and Xuande led his troops in retreat. The rebels took advantage of the situation and pursued. Just as they passed the mountain ridge, the gongs sounded in Xuande's army, and the two wings came out together; Xuande wheeled his troops about and turned back to kill. Attacked from three directions, the rebels were utterly routed. They were pursued right to the walls of Qingzhou. The governor Gong Jing also led out the militia from the city to aid in the fight. The rebels were badly defeated, and great numbers were slain; thus the siege of Qingzhou was raised. Later men had a poem praising Xuande:
  - id: chapter-1-010
    source: 運籌決算有神功，二虎還須遜一龍。初出便能垂偉績，自應分鼎在孤窮。
    target: >-
      In planning and deciding he had godlike skill; / Two tigers must still yield to one dragon. / At his first appearance he achieved great deeds; / Surely he was destined to divide the tripod though poor and alone.
  - id: chapter-1-011
    source: 龔景犒軍畢，鄒靖欲回。玄德曰：「近聞中郎將盧植與賊首張角戰於廣宗，備昔曾 師事盧植，欲往助之。」於是鄒靖引軍自回，玄德與關、張引本部五百人投廣宗來。至
      盧植軍中，入帳施禮，具道來意。盧植大喜，留在帳前聽調。
    target: >-
      After Gong Jing had rewarded the troops, Zou Jing wished to return. Xuande said: "I have lately heard that the Imperial Guard Commandant Lu Zhi is fighting the rebel leader Zhang Jiao at Guangzong. I once studied under Lu Zhi and wish to go help him." So Zou Jing led his troops back, while Xuande, with Guan and Zhang, took his own five hundred men and went to Guangzong. Arriving at Lu Zhi's camp, he entered the tent, paid his respects, and explained his purpose. Lu Zhi was delighted and kept him before the tent to await orders.
  - id: chapter-1-012
    source: 時張角賊眾十五萬，植兵五萬，相拒於廣宗，未見勝負。植謂玄德曰：「我今圍賊 在此，賊弟張梁，張寶在潁川，與皇甫嵩、朱雋對壘。汝可引本部人馬，我更助汝一千
      官軍，前去潁川打探消息，約期剿捕。」玄德領命，引軍星夜投潁川來。時皇甫嵩、朱 雋領軍拒賊，賊戰不利，退入長社，依草結營。嵩與雋計曰：「賊依草結營，當用火攻
      之。」遂令軍士，每人束草一把，暗地埋伏。其夜大風忽起。二更以後，一齊縱火，嵩 與雋各引兵攻擊賊寨，火燄張天，賊眾驚慌，馬不及鞍，人不及甲，四散奔走。殺到天
      明，張梁、張寶引敗殘軍士，奪路而走。
    target: >-
      At that time Zhang Jiao's rebel host numbered one hundred and fifty thousand, while Lu Zhi had fifty thousand troops. They faced each other at Guangzong with no victory yet decided. Lu Zhi said to Xuande: "I am besieging the rebels here. The rebel brothers Zhang Liang and Zhang Bao are at Yingchuan, facing Huangfu Song and Zhu Jun. You may take your own troops, and I will add a thousand government soldiers to help you, and go to Yingchuan to scout the situation and fix a time to suppress them." Xuande accepted the order and led his troops by forced night marches to Yingchuan. At that time Huangfu Song and Zhu Jun were leading troops against the rebels, but the rebels fought unsuccessfully and withdrew into Changshe, where they made camp relying on dry grass. Song and Jun planned: "The rebels have camped amid grass; we should attack with fire." So they ordered the soldiers each to bind a bundle of grass and lie in ambush. That night a great wind suddenly arose. After the second watch, they set fire all together; Song and Jun each led troops to attack the rebel camp. The flames reached the sky, and the rebels were thrown into panic; horses were not saddled, men did not don armor, and they scattered in all directions. They were slaughtered until dawn, when Zhang Liang and Zhang Bao led the remnants of their defeated troops and fought their way out.
  - id: chapter-1-013
    source: 忽見一彪軍馬，盡打紅旗，當頭來到，截往去路。為首閃出一將，身長七尺，細眼 長髯；官拜騎都尉；沛國譙郡人也：姓曹，名操，字孟德。操父曹嵩，本姓夏侯氏；因
      為中常侍曹騰之養子，故冒姓曹。曹嵩生操，小字阿瞞，一名吉利。操幼時，好游獵， 喜歌舞；有權謀，多機變。操有叔父，見操游蕩無度，嘗怒之，言於曹嵩。嵩責操。操
      忽心生一計：見叔父來，詐倒於地，作中風之狀。叔父驚告嵩，嵩急視之，操故無恙。 嵩曰：「叔言汝中風，今己愈乎？」操曰：「兒自來無此病；因失愛於叔父，故見罔耳
      。」嵩信其言。後叔父但言操過，嵩並不聽。因此，操得恣意放蕩。
    target: >-
      Suddenly a body of troops appeared, all with red banners, coming straight forward and blocking the road. From the front flashed forth a general, seven feet tall, with narrow eyes and a long beard; he held the office of Cavalry Commandant and was a man of Qiao Commandery in the State of Pei. His surname was Cao, his given name Cao, his style Mengde. Cao's father Cao Song had originally been of the Xiahou clan; because he became the adopted son of the eunuch Cao Teng, he assumed the surname Cao. Cao Song begot Cao, whose childhood name was A-man, also called Jili. In his youth Cao loved hunting and delighted in song and dance; he was crafty and full of schemes. Cao had an uncle who, seeing Cao idle and dissolute without restraint, was often angry with him and told Cao Song. Song reproved Cao. Cao suddenly conceived a plan: when he saw his uncle coming, he pretended to fall to the ground in a fit of apoplexy. The uncle, alarmed, told Song, who hurried to look; Cao was perfectly well. Song said: "Your uncle said you had apoplexy; are you now recovered?" Cao replied: "I have never had such a disease; it is only because I have lost your uncle's affection that he deceives you." Song believed him. Afterwards, whenever the uncle spoke of Cao's faults, Song would not listen. Thus Cao was able to indulge his dissolute ways.
  - id: chapter-1-014
    source: 卻說玄德引關、張來潁川，聽得喊殺之聲，又望見火光燭天，急引兵來時，賊已敗 散。玄德見皇甫嵩，朱雋，其道盧植之意。嵩曰：「張梁、張寶勢窮力乏，必投廣宗去
      依張角。玄德可即星夜往助。」
    target: >-
      Now when Xuande, with Guan and Zhang, came to Yingchuan, they heard the shouts of battle and saw the firelight lighting the sky. He hurried his troops forward, but the rebels had already been defeated and scattered. Xuande met Huangfu Song and Zhu Jun and explained Lu Zhi's intention. Song said: "Zhang Liang and Zhang Bao are exhausted and at the end of their strength; they will surely flee to Guangzong to join Zhang Jiao. Xuande, you should go at once by night to assist there."
  - id: chapter-1-015
    source: 玄德領命，遂引兵復回。到得半路，只見一簇軍馬，護送一輛檻車，車中之囚，乃 盧植也。玄德大驚，滾鞍下馬，問其緣故。植曰：「我圍張角，將次可破；因角用妖術
      ，未能即勝。朝廷差黃門左豐前來體探，問我索取賄賂。我答曰：『軍糧尚缺，安有餘 錢奉承天使？』左豐挾恨，回奏朝廷，說我高壘不戰，惰慢軍心；因此朝廷震怒，遣中
      郎將董卓來代將我兵，取我回京問罪。」
    target: >-
      Xuande accepted the order and led his troops back. Halfway there, he saw a company of soldiers escorting a prison cart, and the prisoner in the cart was none other than Lu Zhi. Xuande was greatly shocked, slipped from his saddle, dismounted, and asked the reason. Lu Zhi said: "I was besieging Zhang Jiao and was about to defeat him; but because Zhang Jiao used sorcery, I could not win at once. The court sent the Yellow Gate official Zuo Feng to inspect, and he demanded a bribe from me. I answered: 'Military provisions are still lacking; how can I have surplus money to flatter the imperial envoy?' Zuo Feng bore a grudge and reported to the court that I had built high ramparts and would not fight, and that I was slackening the morale of the army. Therefore the court was enraged and sent the Imperial Guard Commandant Dong Zhuo to take command of my troops in my place and bring me back to the capital for questioning."
  - id: chapter-1-016
    source: 三人飛馬引軍而出。張角正殺敗董卓，乘勢趕來，忽遇三人衝殺，角軍大亂，敗走 五十餘里。三人救了董卓回寨。卓問三人現居何職。玄德曰：「白身。」卓甚輕之，不
      為禮。玄德出，張飛大怒曰：「我等親赴血戰，救了這廝，他卻如此無禮﹔若不殺之， 難消我氣！」便要提刀入帳來殺董卓。正是：人情勢利古猶今，誰識英雄是白身？安得
      快人如翼德，盡誅世上負心人！畢竟董卓性命如何，且看下文分解。
    target: >-
      The three men rode out with their troops at full gallop. Zhang Jiao had just defeated Dong Zhuo and was pursuing him when he suddenly encountered the three charging and killing; Zhang Jiao's army fell into great confusion and fled more than fifty li. The three rescued Dong Zhuo and returned to camp. Dong Zhuo asked what offices the three held. Xuande said: "We are commoners." Dong Zhuo greatly slighted them and showed them no courtesy. When Xuande came out, Zhang Fei flew into a rage and said: "We went personally into bloody battle and saved this fellow, yet he is so rude! If I do not kill him, my anger will not subside!" He was about to seize his sword and enter the tent to kill Dong Zhuo. Truly: The ways of men are ruled by power and profit, in old times as now; / Who recognizes a hero when he is but a commoner? / Would there were a forthright man like Yide / To slay all the ungrateful wretches in the world! As for what became of Dong Zhuo's life, listen to the next installment.
- path: chapter-2
  entries:
  - id: chapter-2-001
    source: 中平六年，夏四月，靈帝病篤，召大將軍何進入宮，商議後事。那何進起身屠家； 因妹入宮為貴人，生皇子辯，遂立為皇后，進由是得權重任。帝又寵幸王美人，生皇子
      協。何后嫉妒，鴆殺王美人。皇子協養於董太后宮中。董太后乃靈帝之母，解瀆亭侯劉 萇之妻也。初因桓帝無子，迎立解瀆亭侯之子，是為靈帝。靈帝入繼大統，遂迎養母氏
      於宮中，尊為太后。
    target: >-
      In the sixth year of Zhongping, in the fourth month of summer, Emperor Ling was gravely ill and summoned the Grand General He Jin into the palace to discuss affairs after his death. He Jin had come from a butcher's family; because his sister entered the palace as a favorite and gave birth to the prince Bian, she was made empress, and He Jin thereby gained power and high office. The Emperor also favored the Beautiful Lady Wang, who gave birth to the prince Xie. Empress He was jealous and poisoned Lady Wang. Prince Xie was raised in the palace of Empress Dowager Dong. Empress Dowager Dong was the mother of Emperor Ling and the wife of Liu Chang, Marquis of Jiedu Pavilion. Originally, because Emperor Huan had no son, the son of the Marquis of Jiedu Pavilion was brought to the throne, and he became Emperor Ling. When Emperor Ling succeeded to the imperial line, he brought his mother to the palace to be cared for and honored her as Empress Dowager.
  - id: chapter-2-002
    source: 何進聽罷，出謂眾官曰：「蹇碩設謀害我，可族滅其家。其餘不必妄加殘害。」袁 紹曰：「若不斬草除根，必為喪身之本。」進曰：「吾意已決，汝勿多言。」眾官皆退
      。
    target: >-
      When He Jin had heard all, he went out and said to the assembled officials: "Jian Shuo plotted to harm me; his whole clan should be exterminated. The rest need not be wantonly harmed." Yuan Shao said: "If you do not cut the grass and pull out the roots, it will surely become the cause of your own destruction." He Jin said: "My mind is made up; say no more." All the officials withdrew.
  - id: chapter-2-003
    source: 次日，太后命何進參錄尚書事，其餘皆封官職。董太后宣張讓等入宮商議曰：「何 進之妹，始初我抬舉他。今日他孩兒即皇帝位，內外臣僚，皆其心腹：威權太重，我將
      如何？」讓奏曰：「娘娘可臨朝，垂簾聽政；封皇子協為王；加國舅董重大官，掌握軍 權；重用臣等：大事可圖矣。」
    target: >-
      The next day, the Empress Dowager ordered He Jin to participate in the affairs of the Imperial Secretariat, and the rest were all given offices. Empress Dowager Dong summoned Zhang Rang and others into the palace to consult, saying: "He Jin's sister—at first it was I who raised her up. Now her child has ascended the imperial throne, and all officials inside and outside are her confidants. Her power is too great; what shall I do?" Zhang Rang replied: "Your Highness may hold court from behind the screen and hear government; enfeoff the prince Xie as a prince; give the imperial relative Dong Zhong a high office and control of military power; and employ us greatly. Then great affairs may be compassed."
  - id: chapter-2-004
    source: 董太后大喜。次日設朝，董太后降旨，封皇子協為陳留王，董重為驃騎將軍，張讓 等共預朝政。何太后見董太后專權，於宮中設一宴，請董太后赴席。酒至半酣，何太后
      起身捧盃再拜曰：「我等皆婦人也，參預朝政，非其所宜。昔呂后因握重權，宗族千口 皆被戮。今我等宜深居九重；朝廷大事，任大臣元老自行商議，此國家之幸也。願垂聽
      焉。」董太后大怒曰：「汝鴆死王美人，設心嫉妒。今倚汝子為君，與汝兄何進之勢， 輒敢亂言！吾敕驃騎斷汝兄首，如反掌耳！」何后亦怒曰：「吾以好言相勸，何反怒耶
      ？」董后曰：「汝家屠沽小輩，有何見識！」
    target: >-
      Empress Dowager Dong was delighted. The next day court was held, and Empress Dowager Dong issued an edict making Prince Xie the Prince of Chenliu, Dong Zhong General of Agile Cavalry, and Zhang Rang and others joint participants in court affairs. When Empress Dowager He saw Empress Dowager Dong monopolizing power, she gave a banquet in the palace and invited Empress Dowager Dong to attend. When the wine was half drunk, Empress Dowager He rose, raised her cup, bowed twice, and said: "We are all women, and it is not fitting for us to meddle in court affairs. Formerly Empress Lü, because she grasped great power, had a thousand members of her clan slain. Now we should dwell deep within the ninefold palace; let the great ministers and elders discuss the great affairs of court themselves. This would be a blessing to the state. I beg you to graciously listen." Empress Dowager Dong flew into a rage and said: "You poisoned Lady Wang to death, your heart is full of jealousy. Now, relying on your son as emperor and on your brother He Jin's power, you dare to speak wildly! I need only order the General of Agile Cavalry to cut off your brother's head, as easily as turning my hand!" Empress Dowager He also grew angry and said: "I advised you with kind words; why are you angry instead?" Empress Dowager Dong said: "You are a lowborn butcher and wine-seller's kin; what understanding can you have?"
  - id: chapter-2-005
    source: 少頃，何進入白后，欲誅中涓。何后曰：「中官統領禁省，漢家故事。先帝新棄天 下，爾欲誅殺舊臣，非重宗廟也。」進本是沒決斷之人，聽太后言，唯唯而出。袁紹迎
      問曰：「大事若何？」進曰：「太后不允，如之奈何？」紹曰：「可召四方英雄人士， 勒兵來京，盡誅閹豎。此時事急，不容太后不從。」進曰：「此計大妙！」便發檄至各
      鎮，召赴京師。
    target: >-
      After a short while, He Jin entered and informed the Empress Dowager, wishing to execute the palace eunuchs. Empress Dowager He said: "It has been the custom of the Han house for eunuchs to command the forbidden palace. The late Emperor has but recently left the world, and you wish to kill his old servants—this is not to honor the ancestral temple." He Jin was by nature a man without decision; hearing the Empress Dowager's words, he assented and went out. Yuan Shao met him and asked: "How goes the great matter?" He Jin said: "The Empress Dowager will not permit it; what can be done?" Yuan Shao said: "You may summon heroes and men of valor from all quarters to lead troops to the capital and put all the eunuchs to death. At this critical moment, the Empress Dowager will have no choice but to comply." He Jin said: "This plan is excellent!" He at once sent proclamations to the various garrisons, summoning them to the capital.
  - id: chapter-2-006
    source: 主簿陳琳曰：「不可！俗云：『掩目而捕燕雀』，是自欺也。微物尚不可欺以得志 ，況國家大事乎？今將軍仗皇威，掌兵要，龍驤虎步，高下在心：若欲誅宦官，如鼓洪
      爐燎毛髮耳。但當速發，行權立斷，則天人順之﹔卻反外檄大臣，臨犯京闕，英雄聚會 ，各懷一心：所謂倒持干戈，授人以柄，功必一成，反生亂矣。」何進笑曰：「此懦夫
      之見也！」傍邊一人鼓掌大笑曰：「此事易如反掌，何必多議！」視之，乃曹操也。正 是：欲除君側宵人亂，須聽朝中智士謀。不知曹操說出甚話來，且聽下文分解。
    target: >-
      The Registrar Chen Lin said: "You must not! As the saying goes, 'Cover your eyes and catch sparrows'—that is self-deception. Even small creatures cannot be caught by deceit and made to yield, let alone the great affairs of state. Now, General, you rely on imperial authority, hold the vital military power, stride like a dragon and tiger, and have high and low at your heart's command. If you wish to execute the eunuchs, it is like blowing up a great furnace to singe a hair. You need only act quickly, exercise authority, and decide at once; then Heaven and man will obey you. Instead you would send proclamations to ministers outside, causing them to approach and violate the capital gates. Heroes will gather, each with his own mind. This is what is called holding the shield and spear reversed and giving the handle to another. If the deed is even once accomplished, disorder will instead arise." He Jin laughed and said: "This is the view of a coward!" Beside him a man clapped his hands and laughed loudly, saying: "This matter is as easy as turning over one's hand; why discuss it so much?" They looked, and it was Cao Cao. Truly: To remove the petty men who cause disorder beside the ruler, / One must heed the counsels of the wise men at court. What Cao Cao said, listen to the next installment.
```