/* cliff:source: 建寧二年四月望日，帝御溫德殿。方陞座，殿角狂風驟起，只見一條大青蛇，從梁 上飛將下來，蟠於椅上。帝驚倒，左右急救入宮，百官俱奔避。須臾，蛇不見了。忽然 大雷大雨，加以冰雹，落到半夜方止，壞卻房屋無數。建寧四年二月，洛陽地震；又海 水泛溢，沿海居民，盡被大浪捲入海中。光和元年，雌雞化雄。六月朔，黑氣十餘丈， 飛入溫德殿中。秋七月，有虹見於玉堂；五原山岸，盡皆崩裂。種種不祥，非止一端。 */
"chapter-1-001" = "On the fifteenth day of the fourth month of the second year of Jian Ning, the Emperor held court in the Hall of Warm Virtue. He had just taken his seat when a wild wind sprang up from the corner of the hall, and there came a great green serpent flying down from the beams to coil upon his throne. The Emperor fell down in terror; his attendants hurried him into the inner palace, and all the officials fled for their lives. In a moment, the serpent was gone. Then suddenly came thunder and torrential rain, with hail besides, which did not cease until midnight, destroying countless houses. In the second month of the fourth year of Jian Ning, an earthquake struck Luoyang; and the sea overflowed its bounds, so that the people along the coast were all swept into the sea by the great waves. In the first year of Guang He, hens turned into roosters. On the first day of the sixth month, a black vapor more than a hundred feet long flew into the Hall of Warm Virtue. In the seventh month of autumn, a rainbow appeared in the Jade Hall; and the cliffs of Wuyuan Mountain all split asunder. Such evil omens were not confined to one kind alone.";
/* cliff:source: 帝下詔問群臣以災異之由，議郎蔡邕上疏，以為蜺墮雞化，乃婦寺干政之所致，言 頗切直。帝覽奏歎息，因起更衣。曹節在後竊視，悉宣告左右。遂以他事陷邕於罪，放 歸田里。後張讓，趙忠，封諝，段珪，曹節，候覽，蹇碩，程曠，夏惲，郭勝十人朋比 為奸，號為「十常侍」。帝尊信張讓，呼為「阿父」，朝政日非，以致天下人心思亂， 盜賊蜂起。 */
"chapter-1-002" = "The Emperor issued a decree asking his ministers the cause of these calamities. Cai Yong, a Gentleman Consultant, submitted a memorial arguing that falling rainbows and hens turning into roosters came of women and eunuchs meddling in the affairs of state, and his words were blunt and direct. Reading the memorial, the Emperor sighed, and rose to change his robes. Cao Jie, watching furtively from behind, reported all of it to those about him. Then he used another matter to frame Cai Yong for a crime and sent him back to his fields. Later, Zhang Rang, Zhao Zhong, Feng Xu, Duan Gui, Cao Jie, Hou Lan, Jian Shuo, Cheng Kuang, Xia Yun, and Guo Sheng—ten men banded together in wickedness—were known as the Ten Regular Attendants. The Emperor honored and trusted Zhang Rang, calling him Foster Father, and the government grew worse by the day, until the hearts of the people turned to disorder and bandits rose like swarms of bees.";
/* cliff:source: 時鉅鹿郡有兄弟三人：一名張角，一名張寶，一名張梁。那張角本是個不第秀才。 因入山採藥，遇一老人，碧眼童顏，手執藜杖，喚角至一洞中，以天書三卷授之，曰： 「此名太平要術。汝得之，當代天宣化，普救世人；若萌異心，必獲惡報。」角拜問姓 名。老人曰：「吾乃南華老仙也。」言訖，化陣清風而去。 */
"chapter-1-003" = "At that time there were three brothers in Julu Commandery: one named Zhang Jiao, one named Zhang Bao, and one named Zhang Liang. Zhang Jiao was a scholar who had failed the examinations. One day, gathering herbs in the hills, he met an old man with blue eyes and the face of a child, who carried a staff of wild pear wood. The old man called Jiao into a cave and gave him three volumes of a heavenly book, saying: 'This is called Essential Arts of Great Peace. If you master it, you shall proclaim the transforming power of Heaven on behalf of Heaven and save all the people of the world. But if you harbor disloyal thoughts, you will surely receive evil retribution.' Jiao bowed and asked his name. The old man said: 'I am the Old Immortal of Nanhua.' With these words he turned into a gust of clear wind and was gone.";
/* cliff:source: 張角聞知事露，星夜舉兵，自稱天公將軍，─張寶稱地公將軍，張梁稱人公將軍─ 。申言於眾曰：「今漢運將終，大聖人出﹔汝等皆宜順從天意，以槳太平。」四方百姓 ，裹黃巾從張角反者，四五十萬。賊勢浩大，官軍望風而靡。何進奏帝火速降詔，令各 處備禦，討賊立功；一面遣中郎將盧植，皇甫嵩，朱雋，各引精兵，分三路討之。 */
"chapter-1-004" = "When Zhang Jiao learned that his plot had been exposed, he raised his troops that very night, calling himself the General of Heaven—Zhang Bao styled himself General of Earth, and Zhang Liang General of Man. He proclaimed to the multitude: 'The fortune of the Han is near its end; a great sage has appeared. You should all obey the will of Heaven and join in bringing about Great Peace.' From every quarter, common folk wrapped yellow cloth about their heads and followed Zhang Jiao in rebellion, four or five hundred thousand of them. The bandits' power was immense, and the government troops fell before them at the mere sight. He Jin memorialized the Emperor to issue urgent decrees, ordering every district to prepare its defenses and win merit by suppressing the rebels; at the same time he dispatched the Household Generals Lu Zhi, Huangfu Song, and Zhu Jun, each leading picked troops, to attack along three separate routes.";
/* cliff:source: 且說張角一軍，前犯幽州界分。幽州太守劉焉，乃江夏竟陵人氏，漢魯恭王之後也 ；當時聞得賊兵將至，召校尉鄒靖計議。靖曰：「賊兵眾，我兵寡，明公宜作速招軍應 敵。」劉焉然其說，隨即出榜招募義兵。榜文行到涿縣，乃引出涿縣中一個英雄。 */
"chapter-1-005" = "Now let us speak of one of Zhang Jiao's armies, which first invaded the borders of You Province. The governor of You Province was Liu Yan, a man of Jingling in Jiangxia and a descendant of Prince Gong of Lu of the Han. When he heard that the rebel troops were about to arrive, he summoned the Commandant Zou Jing to take counsel with him. Jing said: 'The rebels are many and our troops are few. My lord should make haste to recruit soldiers to meet the enemy.' Liu Yan approved his words and at once posted a proclamation calling for volunteers. When the notice reached Zhuo County, it brought forth a hero from within that county.";
/* cliff:source: 那人不甚好讀書；性寬和，寡言語，喜怒不形於色；素有大志，專好結交天下豪傑 ；生得身長七尺五寸，兩耳垂肩，雙手過膝，目能自顧其耳，面如冠玉，脣若塗脂；中 山靖王劉勝之後，漢景帝閣下玄孫﹔姓劉，名備，字玄德。昔劉勝之子劉貞，漢武時封 涿鹿亭侯，後坐酬金失侯，因此遺這一枝在涿縣。玄德祖劉雄，父劉弘。弘曾舉孝廉， 亦嘗作吏，早喪。玄德幼孤，事母至孝；家貧，販屨織蓆為業。家住本縣樓桑村。其家 之東南，有一大桑樹，高五丈餘，遙望之，童童如車蓋。相者云：「此家必出貴人。」 */
"chapter-1-006" = "This man was not much given to study. Mild and even-tempered by nature, sparing of speech, he showed neither joy nor anger in his face. He had long cherished great ambitions and delighted above all in befriending the heroes of the realm. He stood seven feet five inches tall, with ears that hung to his shoulders and hands that reached below his knees; his eyes could turn and see his own ears. His face was like polished jade and his lips as if painted with vermilion. He was a descendant of Liu Sheng, Prince Jing of Zhongshan, and a great-great-grandson of Emperor Jing of the Han. His surname was Liu, his given name Bei, his style name Xuande. In former days, Liu Zhen, son of Liu Sheng, had been enfeoffed as Marquis of Zhuolu Pavilion in the reign of Emperor Wu; later he lost his title for failing to pay the tribute of gold, and so this branch of the family was left in Zhuo County. Xuande's grandfather was Liu Xiong, his father Liu Hong. Liu Hong had once been recommended as Filial and Incorrupt and had also served as an official, but he died young. Xuande, orphaned in childhood, served his mother with the utmost filial piety; the family was poor, and he made his living selling sandals and weaving mats. They lived in Lou Sang Village of the county. To the southeast of their house stood a great mulberry tree more than five zhang tall, which from a distance looked as dense and round as a carriage canopy. A physiognomist said: 'This household is certain to produce a man of high estate.'";
/* cliff:source: 飛曰：「吾莊後有一桃園，花開正盛；明日當於園中祭告天地，我三人結為兄弟， 協力同心，然後可圖大事。」玄德、雲長、齊聲應曰：「如此甚好。」次日，於桃園中 ，備下烏牛白馬祭禮等項，三人焚香，再拜而說誓曰：「念劉備、關羽、張飛，雖然異 姓，既結為兄弟，則同心協力，救困扶危；上報國家，下安黎庶；不求同年同月同日生 ，但願同年同月同日死。皇天后土，實鑒此心。背義忘恩，天人共戮。」誓畢，拜玄德 為兄，關羽次之，張飛為弟。祭罷天地，復宰牛設酒，聚鄉中勇士，得三百餘人，就桃 園中痛飲一醉。來日收拾軍器，但恨無馬匹可乘。 */
"chapter-1-007" = "Fei said: 'Behind my farm there is a peach garden where the blossoms are at their fullest. Tomorrow let us make sacrifice to Heaven and Earth in that garden, and the three of us shall become sworn brothers, of one heart and joined strength; then we may undertake great things.' Xuande and Yunchang answered with one voice: 'Nothing could be better.' The next day, in the peach garden, they prepared a black ox, a white horse, and other offerings for the sacrifice. The three burned incense, bowed twice, and spoke their oath: 'Mindful of Liu Bei, Guan Yu, and Zhang Fei, though of different surnames, we have become brothers; henceforth we shall be of one heart and join our strength to relieve the distressed and succor the endangered, to require the state above and bring peace to the people below. We ask not to be born on the same day, in the same month, in the same year, but only to die on the same day, in the same month, in the same year. August Heaven and sovereign Earth, truly behold our hearts. If we betray righteousness and forget gratitude, may Heaven and man alike put us to death.' When the oath was done, they paid reverence to Xuande as the eldest brother, Guan Yu next, and Zhang Fei as the youngest. The sacrifice to Heaven and Earth finished, they slaughtered the ox and set out wine, gathered the braves of the village—more than three hundred of them—and drank themselves merry in the peach garden. On the morrow they set about preparing weapons of war, regretting only that they had no horses to ride.";
/* cliff:source: 英雄發穎在今朝，一試矛兮一試刀。初出便將威力展，三分好把姓名標。 */
"chapter-1-008" = "The hero's brilliance shines forth this very day: he tries his spear, he tries his blade. At his first sally he puts forth his might; well may he set his name among the Threefold Realm.";
/* cliff:source: 次日，玄德與鄒靖，引軍鼓譟而進。賊眾迎戰，玄德引軍便退。賊眾乘勢追趕，方 過山嶺，玄德軍中一齊鳴金，左右兩軍齊出，玄德麾軍回身復殺。三路夾攻，賊眾大潰 。直趕至青州城下，太守龔景亦率民兵出城助戰。賊勢大敗，剿戮極多，遂解青州之圍 。後人有詩讚玄德曰： */
"chapter-1-009" = "The next day, Xuande and Zou Jing advanced with drums beating and troops shouting. The rebels came out to give battle, and Xuande's troops at once withdrew. The rebels took advantage of the moment to press the pursuit, and just as they crossed the ridge, the gongs sounded throughout Xuande's camp; both flanking armies came out together, and Xuande wheeled his troops about and turned back to the slaughter. Caught in a three-way attack, the rebels utterly collapsed. They were chased all the way to the walls of Qingzhou city, where the governor Gong Jing also led out the militia to aid in the fighting. The rebels were badly beaten, and great numbers of them were slain, and so the siege of Qingzhou was lifted. Later men had a poem in praise of Xuande:";
/* cliff:source: 運籌決算有神功，二虎還須遜一龍。初出便能垂偉績，自應分鼎在孤窮。 */
"chapter-1-010" = "In planning and calculating, his skill is godlike; two tigers must still yield to one dragon. At his first venture he achieved great deeds; well does he deserve a share of the tripod in his poverty.";
/* cliff:source: 龔景犒軍畢，鄒靖欲回。玄德曰：「近聞中郎將盧植與賊首張角戰於廣宗，備昔曾 師事盧植，欲往助之。」於是鄒靖引軍自回，玄德與關、張引本部五百人投廣宗來。至 盧植軍中，入帳施禮，具道來意。盧植大喜，留在帳前聽調。 */
"chapter-1-011" = "When Gong Jing had finished rewarding the troops, Zou Jing wished to return. Xuande said: 'I have lately heard that the Household General Lu Zhi is fighting the rebel leader Zhang Jiao at Guangzong. I once studied under Lu Zhi and wish to go and assist him.' So Zou Jing led his troops back, and Xuande, with Guan and Zhang, took his own five hundred men and set out for Guangzong. Arriving in Lu Zhi's camp, he entered the tent, made his salutations, and fully explained his purpose. Lu Zhi was overjoyed and kept him before the tent to await orders.";
/* cliff:source: 時張角賊眾十五萬，植兵五萬，相拒於廣宗，未見勝負。植謂玄德曰：「我今圍賊 在此，賊弟張梁，張寶在潁川，與皇甫嵩、朱雋對壘。汝可引本部人馬，我更助汝一千 官軍，前去潁川打探消息，約期剿捕。」玄德領命，引軍星夜投潁川來。時皇甫嵩、朱 雋領軍拒賊，賊戰不利，退入長社，依草結營。嵩與雋計曰：「賊依草結營，當用火攻 之。」遂令軍士，每人束草一把，暗地埋伏。其夜大風忽起。二更以後，一齊縱火，嵩 與雋各引兵攻擊賊寨，火燄張天，賊眾驚慌，馬不及鞍，人不及甲，四散奔走。殺到天 明，張梁、張寶引敗殘軍士，奪路而走。 */
"chapter-1-012" = "At that time Zhang Jiao's rebels numbered a hundred and fifty thousand, and Lu Zhi's troops fifty thousand; they faced each other at Guangzong with no decision yet. Lu Zhi said to Xuande: 'I have the rebels penned in here, but the rebel brothers Zhang Liang and Zhang Bao are at Yingchuan, facing Huangfu Song and Zhu Jun. You may lead your own troops, and I will add a thousand government soldiers to them, and go to Yingchuan to scout out the situation, then set a time to hunt them down.' Xuande received the order and marched his troops night and day to Yingchuan. Huangfu Song and Zhu Jun were then holding the rebels at bay; the rebels fared ill in battle and retreated into Changshe, where they made camp among the dry grass. Song and Jun took counsel together: 'The rebels have camped in the grass; we should attack them with fire.' So they ordered each soldier to bind up a bundle of grass and lie hidden in ambush. That night a great wind suddenly arose. After the second watch they set fire all together, and Song and Jun each led troops to storm the rebel camp. The flames reached the sky; the rebels panicked, and before they could saddle their horses or put on their armor they scattered and fled. The slaughter went on until dawn, when Zhang Liang and Zhang Bao, with the remnants of their beaten troops, fought their way out along the road.";
/* cliff:source: 忽見一彪軍馬，盡打紅旗，當頭來到，截往去路。為首閃出一將，身長七尺，細眼 長髯；官拜騎都尉；沛國譙郡人也：姓曹，名操，字孟德。操父曹嵩，本姓夏侯氏；因 為中常侍曹騰之養子，故冒姓曹。曹嵩生操，小字阿瞞，一名吉利。操幼時，好游獵， 喜歌舞；有權謀，多機變。操有叔父，見操游蕩無度，嘗怒之，言於曹嵩。嵩責操。操 忽心生一計：見叔父來，詐倒於地，作中風之狀。叔父驚告嵩，嵩急視之，操故無恙。 嵩曰：「叔言汝中風，今己愈乎？」操曰：「兒自來無此病；因失愛於叔父，故見罔耳 。」嵩信其言。後叔父但言操過，嵩並不聽。因此，操得恣意放蕩。 */
"chapter-1-013" = "Suddenly a column of horsemen appeared, all bearing red banners, coming straight toward them and cutting off the road ahead. Out from the front flashed a general, seven feet tall, with narrow eyes and a long beard. He held the rank of Cavalry Commandant and was a man of the Qiao district of the kingdom of Pei: his surname was Cao, his personal name Cao, his style name Mengde. Cao Cao's father, Cao Song, was originally of the Xiahou clan; because he was the adopted son of the eunuch Cao Teng, he assumed the surname Cao. Cao Song begot Cao Cao, whose childhood name was A-Man, and who was also called Jili. As a boy, Cao loved hunting and delighted in song and dance; he was crafty in scheming and full of shifts and turns. Cao had an uncle who, seeing him roving about without restraint, was often angry with him and spoke of it to Cao Song. Song reproved Cao. Then Cao suddenly hit on a scheme: when he saw his uncle coming, he fell to the ground and feigned the signs of a paralytic stroke. His uncle, alarmed, told Song, who hurried to look at him—Cao was quite well as ever. Song said: 'Your uncle said you had a stroke; are you recovered now?' Cao replied: 'I have never had such an illness. It is only that I have lost my uncle's affection, and so he deceives you about me.' Song believed his words. Afterward, whenever the uncle spoke of Cao's faults, Song would not listen at all. Thus Cao was free to indulge himself as he pleased.";
/* cliff:source: 卻說玄德引關、張來潁川，聽得喊殺之聲，又望見火光燭天，急引兵來時，賊已敗 散。玄德見皇甫嵩，朱雋，其道盧植之意。嵩曰：「張梁、張寶勢窮力乏，必投廣宗去 依張角。玄德可即星夜往助。」 */
"chapter-1-014" = "Now let us tell how Xuande, bringing Guan and Zhang, came to Yingchuan and heard the shouts of battle, and saw firelight lighting up the sky. He hurried his troops forward, but the rebels had already scattered in defeat. Xuande met Huangfu Song and Zhu Jun and conveyed to them Lu Zhi's intentions. Song said: 'Zhang Liang and Zhang Bao are at the end of their strength and their power is spent; they will surely flee to Guangzong to join Zhang Jiao. You, Xuande, should march there by night to aid him.'";
/* cliff:source: 玄德領命，遂引兵復回。到得半路，只見一簇軍馬，護送一輛檻車，車中之囚，乃 盧植也。玄德大驚，滾鞍下馬，問其緣故。植曰：「我圍張角，將次可破；因角用妖術 ，未能即勝。朝廷差黃門左豐前來體探，問我索取賄賂。我答曰：『軍糧尚缺，安有餘 錢奉承天使？』左豐挾恨，回奏朝廷，說我高壘不戰，惰慢軍心；因此朝廷震怒，遣中 郎將董卓來代將我兵，取我回京問罪。」 */
"chapter-1-015" = "Xuande obeyed the order and led his troops back. Halfway along the road he saw a body of soldiers escorting a prison cart, and the prisoner in the cart was none other than Lu Zhi. Xuande, greatly shocked, rolled off his saddle and dismounted, and asked him the reason. Lu Zhi said: 'I had Zhang Jiao surrounded and was on the point of breaking him; but because Jiao used sorcery, I could not win at once. The court sent the eunuch Zuo Feng to inspect the front, and he demanded a bribe of me. I answered him: "Our military rations are already short—how should I have spare money to flatter the imperial envoy?" Zuo Feng bore a grudge, and on his return he memorialized the court that I had built high ramparts and would not fight, and that my idleness was slackening the spirit of the troops. Therefore the court was enraged and sent the Household General Dong Zhuo to take command of my army in my place and to bring me back to the capital for trial.'";
/* cliff:source: 三人飛馬引軍而出。張角正殺敗董卓，乘勢趕來，忽遇三人衝殺，角軍大亂，敗走 五十餘里。三人救了董卓回寨。卓問三人現居何職。玄德曰：「白身。」卓甚輕之，不 為禮。玄德出，張飛大怒曰：「我等親赴血戰，救了這廝，他卻如此無禮﹔若不殺之， 難消我氣！」便要提刀入帳來殺董卓。正是：人情勢利古猶今，誰識英雄是白身？安得 快人如翼德，盡誅世上負心人！畢竟董卓性命如何，且看下文分解。 */
"chapter-1-016" = "The three men galloped out with their troops. Zhang Jiao was just then beating Dong Zhuo and pressing home the pursuit, when suddenly he met the three charging into the fray; Jiao's army fell into confusion and fled more than fifty li. The three rescued Dong Zhuo and brought him back to camp. Zhuo asked what offices the three presently held. Xuande said: 'We are commoners.' Zhuo held them in great contempt and offered them no courtesy. When Xuande came out, Zhang Fei flew into a rage: 'We went ourselves into bloody battle and saved this fellow, and he is so rude! If I do not kill him, my anger will never be appeased!' He was about to seize his sword and go into the tent to slay Dong Zhuo. Truly: Men fawn on power in every age as in the past; who knows a hero in a commoner's guise? Would that all men were like Yide, to put to death every ingrate in the world! As to what became of Dong Zhuo's life, listen to the next chapter to find out.";
/* cliff:source: 中平六年，夏四月，靈帝病篤，召大將軍何進入宮，商議後事。那何進起身屠家； 因妹入宮為貴人，生皇子辯，遂立為皇后，進由是得權重任。帝又寵幸王美人，生皇子 協。何后嫉妒，鴆殺王美人。皇子協養於董太后宮中。董太后乃靈帝之母，解瀆亭侯劉 萇之妻也。初因桓帝無子，迎立解瀆亭侯之子，是為靈帝。靈帝入繼大統，遂迎養母氏 於宮中，尊為太后。 */
"chapter-2-001" = "In the sixth year of Zhong Ping, in the fourth month of summer, Emperor Ling lay gravely ill and summoned the Great General He Jin into the palace to discuss the succession. He Jin came of a butcher's family; when his sister entered the palace as a Lady of Honor and bore a prince, Bian, she was made Empress, and through this He Jin gained power and high office. The Emperor also took favor on Lady Wang, who bore a prince, Xie. Empress He, in her jealousy, poisoned Lady Wang. Prince Xie was raised in the palace of the Empress Dowager Dong. The Empress Dowager Dong was the mother of Emperor Ling and the wife of Liu Chang, Marquis of Jiedu Pavilion. At first, because Emperor Huan had no son, they had brought in the son of the Marquis of Jiedu Pavilion and made him Emperor—this was Emperor Ling. When Emperor Ling ascended the throne, he brought his mother into the palace and honored her as Empress Dowager.";
/* cliff:source: 何進聽罷，出謂眾官曰：「蹇碩設謀害我，可族滅其家。其餘不必妄加殘害。」袁 紹曰：「若不斬草除根，必為喪身之本。」進曰：「吾意已決，汝勿多言。」眾官皆退 。 */
"chapter-2-002" = "When He Jin had heard them out, he came out and said to the assembled officials: 'Jian Shuo plotted my destruction; his whole clan should be wiped out. The rest need not be wantonly harmed.' Yuan Shao said: 'If you do not cut the grass and pull out the roots, they will surely be the ruin of you.' He Jin said: 'My mind is made up; say no more.' The officials all withdrew.";
/* cliff:source: 次日，太后命何進參錄尚書事，其餘皆封官職。董太后宣張讓等入宮商議曰：「何 進之妹，始初我抬舉他。今日他孩兒即皇帝位，內外臣僚，皆其心腹：威權太重，我將 如何？」讓奏曰：「娘娘可臨朝，垂簾聽政；封皇子協為王；加國舅董重大官，掌握軍 權；重用臣等：大事可圖矣。」 */
"chapter-2-003" = "The next day, the Empress Dowager commanded that He Jin be appointed to oversee the affairs of the Imperial Secretariat, and all the rest were given offices and rank. The Empress Dowager Dong summoned Zhang Rang and the others into the palace to take counsel, saying: 'As for He Jin's sister—I was the one who first raised her up. Now that her son has taken the imperial throne, all the officials within and without are her confidants; her authority is too great. What am I to do?' Zhang Rang replied: 'Your Highness may hold court in person and hear government from behind the curtain; enfeoff Prince Xie as a prince; give the Empress Dowager's brother Dong Zhong high office and command of the armies; and put us to important use: then great matters may be accomplished.'";
/* cliff:source: 董太后大喜。次日設朝，董太后降旨，封皇子協為陳留王，董重為驃騎將軍，張讓 等共預朝政。何太后見董太后專權，於宮中設一宴，請董太后赴席。酒至半酣，何太后 起身捧盃再拜曰：「我等皆婦人也，參預朝政，非其所宜。昔呂后因握重權，宗族千口 皆被戮。今我等宜深居九重；朝廷大事，任大臣元老自行商議，此國家之幸也。願垂聽 焉。」董太后大怒曰：「汝鴆死王美人，設心嫉妒。今倚汝子為君，與汝兄何進之勢， 輒敢亂言！吾敕驃騎斷汝兄首，如反掌耳！」何后亦怒曰：「吾以好言相勸，何反怒耶 ？」董后曰：「汝家屠沽小輩，有何見識！」 */
"chapter-2-004" = "The Empress Dowager Dong was delighted. The next day she held court and issued a decree enfeoffing Prince Xie as Prince of Chenliu, making Dong Zhong General of Agile Cavalry, and admitting Zhang Rang and the others to a share in the government. When the Empress Dowager He saw the Empress Dowager Dong monopolizing power, she held a banquet in the palace and invited her to attend. When the wine was half drunk, the Empress Dowager He rose, raised her cup, bowed twice, and said: 'We are all women; it is not fitting that we take part in the affairs of state. In former days, because Empress Lü grasped great power, a thousand mouths of her clan were put to the sword. Now we should dwell deep within the ninefold palace and let the great ministers and elders deliberate the affairs of court among themselves—that would be the good fortune of the realm. I beg you to give ear to this.' The Empress Dowager Dong flew into a rage: 'You poisoned Lady Wang to death—jealousy was your design. Now, leaning on your son's being sovereign and on your brother He Jin's power, you dare to prate such wild words! I need only order the Agile Cavalry to cut off your brother's head—as easily as turning my palm!' The Empress Dowager He was angered in turn: 'I advised you with kind words—why do you fly into a rage?' The Empress Dowager Dong said: 'Your family are but butchers and wine-sellers—what understanding have you of anything?'";
/* cliff:source: 少頃，何進入白后，欲誅中涓。何后曰：「中官統領禁省，漢家故事。先帝新棄天 下，爾欲誅殺舊臣，非重宗廟也。」進本是沒決斷之人，聽太后言，唯唯而出。袁紹迎 問曰：「大事若何？」進曰：「太后不允，如之奈何？」紹曰：「可召四方英雄人士， 勒兵來京，盡誅閹豎。此時事急，不容太后不從。」進曰：「此計大妙！」便發檄至各 鎮，召赴京師。 */
"chapter-2-005" = "Shortly after, He Jin came in and reported to the Empress Dowager that he wished to put the palace eunuchs to death. The Empress Dowager He said: 'The eunuchs command the inner palace—that is the established practice of the Han house. The late Emperor has but newly left the world, and you would kill and slaughter his old servants; that is no way to honor the ancestral temple.' He Jin was by nature a man of no decision; hearing the Empress Dowager's words, he murmured his assent and withdrew. Yuan Shao met him and asked: 'How goes the great matter?' He Jin said: 'The Empress Dowager will not permit it—what is to be done?' Shao said: 'You may summon the heroes and notables from every quarter to lead their troops to the capital and put all the eunuchs to death. At such a moment of urgency, the Empress Dowager will have no choice but to agree.' He Jin said: 'An excellent plan!' He at once sent out proclamations to every garrison, summoning them to the capital.";
/* cliff:source: 主簿陳琳曰：「不可！俗云：『掩目而捕燕雀』，是自欺也。微物尚不可欺以得志 ，況國家大事乎？今將軍仗皇威，掌兵要，龍驤虎步，高下在心：若欲誅宦官，如鼓洪 爐燎毛髮耳。但當速發，行權立斷，則天人順之﹔卻反外檄大臣，臨犯京闕，英雄聚會 ，各懷一心：所謂倒持干戈，授人以柄，功必一成，反生亂矣。」何進笑曰：「此懦夫 之見也！」傍邊一人鼓掌大笑曰：「此事易如反掌，何必多議！」視之，乃曹操也。正 是：欲除君側宵人亂，須聽朝中智士謀。不知曹操說出甚話來，且聽下文分解。 */
"chapter-2-006" = "Chen Lin, the Registrar, said: 'You must not! As the saying goes, "Cover your eyes and catch the swallows and sparrows"—that is to deceive yourself. Even small creatures cannot be taken by deceit and deceit; how much less the great affairs of state? Now, General, you lean upon the imperial majesty and hold the essentials of military power; you step forth like a dragon and a tiger, and all things lie in your hand. If you wish to put the eunuchs to death, it is like blowing on a great furnace to singe a hair. You need only act swiftly, exercise your authority and decide on the spot, and Heaven and man will follow you. But instead you send proclamations abroad to the great ministers, bringing them to the very gates of the capital. When the heroes gather, each will harbor his own mind: this is what is called holding the spear reversed and handing the handle to another. The deed may be accomplished, but disorder will surely follow.' He Jin laughed and said: 'That is the view of a coward!' Beside him a man clapped his hands and laughed aloud: 'This matter is as easy as turning one's palm—why all this debate?' They looked at him: it was Cao Cao. Truly: To rid the sovereign's side of petty men's disorder, you must heed the counsel of the court's wise men. What words Cao Cao spoke, listen to the next chapter to find out.";