<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<resources>
    <!--cliff:source: 建寧二年四月望日，帝御溫德殿。方陞座，殿角狂風驟起，只見一條大青蛇，從梁 上飛將下來，蟠於椅上。帝驚倒，左右急救入宮，百官俱奔避。須臾，蛇不見了。忽然 大雷大雨，加以冰雹，落到半夜方止，壞卻房屋無數。建寧四年二月，洛陽地震；又海 水泛溢，沿海居民，盡被大浪捲入海中。光和元年，雌雞化雄。六月朔，黑氣十餘丈， 飛入溫德殿中。秋七月，有虹見於玉堂；五原山岸，盡皆崩裂。種種不祥，非止一端。-->
    <string name="chapter-1-001">On the full-moon day of the fourth month of the second year of Jian Ning, the Emperor held court in the Wende Hall. Just as he mounted the throne, a wild wind rose from a corner of the hall, and a great green serpent flew down from the beam and coiled itself upon the chair. The Emperor fell down in fright; his attendants hurried him into the palace, and all the officials fled in panic. In a moment the serpent had vanished. Then came peals of thunder and a driving rain, together with hail, which did not stop until midnight, destroying countless houses. In the second month of the fourth year of Jian Ning, an earthquake struck Luoyang; the sea also overflowed its banks, and the dwellers along the coast were all swept into the sea by the great waves. In the first year of Guang He, a hen turned into a cock. On the first day of the sixth month, a black vapor more than ten zhang long flew into the Wende Hall. In the seventh month of autumn, a rainbow appeared over the Jade Hall; and the cliffs of Mount Wuyuan all crumbled away. These many evil omens were not of one kind alone.</string>
    <!--cliff:source: 帝下詔問群臣以災異之由，議郎蔡邕上疏，以為蜺墮雞化，乃婦寺干政之所致，言 頗切直。帝覽奏歎息，因起更衣。曹節在後竊視，悉宣告左右。遂以他事陷邕於罪，放 歸田里。後張讓，趙忠，封諝，段珪，曹節，候覽，蹇碩，程曠，夏惲，郭勝十人朋比 為奸，號為「十常侍」。帝尊信張讓，呼為「阿父」，朝政日非，以致天下人心思亂， 盜賊蜂起。-->
    <string name="chapter-1-002">The Emperor issued an edict asking his ministers the cause of these calamities and prodigies. Cai Yong, a Gentleman Consultant, submitted a memorial holding that the fall of a rainbow and the change of a hen into a cock were brought about by women and eunuchs meddling in government; his words were blunt and outspoken. The Emperor sighed as he read the memorial, then rose to change his clothes. Cao Jie, watching him secretly from behind, told all to those about him. He then framed Cai Yong on other charges, and the man was banished to his native village. Later, Zhang Rang, Zhao Zhong, Feng Xu, Duan Gui, Cao Jie, Hou Lan, Jian Shuo, Cheng Kuang, Xia Yun, and Guo Sheng—ten in all—banded together for villainy and were known as “the Ten Regular Attendants.” The Emperor held Zhang Rang in high favor and called him “Papa”; day by day the government grew worse, until the hearts of the people turned toward rebellion and bandits rose like swarms of bees.</string>
    <!--cliff:source: 時鉅鹿郡有兄弟三人：一名張角，一名張寶，一名張梁。那張角本是個不第秀才。 因入山採藥，遇一老人，碧眼童顏，手執藜杖，喚角至一洞中，以天書三卷授之，曰： 「此名太平要術。汝得之，當代天宣化，普救世人；若萌異心，必獲惡報。」角拜問姓 名。老人曰：「吾乃南華老仙也。」言訖，化陣清風而去。-->
    <string name="chapter-1-003">At that time, in the county of Julu there were three brothers: one named Zhang Jiao, one named Zhang Bao, and one named Zhang Liang. Zhang Jiao was a scholar who had failed in the examinations. One day, gathering herbs in the hills, he met an old man with green eyes and a youthful face, who carried a staff of wild-pear wood. The old man called Zhang Jiao into a cave and gave him three volumes of a heavenly book, saying, “This is called the Essential Arts of Great Peace. When you have mastered it, you shall proclaim the transformations of Heaven in its stead and bring salvation to all men. But if you harbor thoughts of treason, you will surely meet with evil retribution.” Zhang Jiao bowed and asked his name. The old man said, “I am the Old Immortal of Nanhua.” With these words he turned into a gust of clear wind and was gone.</string>
    <!--cliff:source: 張角聞知事露，星夜舉兵，自稱天公將軍，─張寶稱地公將軍，張梁稱人公將軍─ 。申言於眾曰：「今漢運將終，大聖人出﹔汝等皆宜順從天意，以槳太平。」四方百姓 ，裹黃巾從張角反者，四五十萬。賊勢浩大，官軍望風而靡。何進奏帝火速降詔，令各 處備禦，討賊立功；一面遣中郎將盧植，皇甫嵩，朱雋，各引精兵，分三路討之。-->
    <string name="chapter-1-004">When Zhang Jiao learned that the plot had been discovered, he raised his troops that very night and proclaimed himself General of Heaven—Zhang Bao took the title General of Earth, and Zhang Liang that of General of Man. He declared to the multitude: “The fortune of Han is now at an end; a great sage has appeared. You should all obey the will of Heaven and so enjoy the Great Peace.” From every quarter the common folk came, wrapping yellow cloths about their heads and following Zhang Jiao in rebellion, four or five hundred thousand strong. The rebel host was so vast that the imperial troops scattered at the mere rumor of it. He Jin memorialized the Emperor to issue edicts at once, ordering every district to prepare its defenses and win merit by suppressing the rebels; and he sent the Generals of the Household Lu Zhi, Huangfu Song, and Zhu Jun, each leading picked troops, to attack the rebels along three routes.</string>
    <!--cliff:source: 且說張角一軍，前犯幽州界分。幽州太守劉焉，乃江夏竟陵人氏，漢魯恭王之後也 ；當時聞得賊兵將至，召校尉鄒靖計議。靖曰：「賊兵眾，我兵寡，明公宜作速招軍應 敵。」劉焉然其說，隨即出榜招募義兵。榜文行到涿縣，乃引出涿縣中一個英雄。-->
    <string name="chapter-1-005">Let us turn now to one of Zhang Jiao’s armies, which had pushed forward to the borders of Youzhou. The governor of Youzhou, Liu Yan, a native of Jingling in Jiangxia and a descendant of Prince Gong of Lu of the Han, heard that the rebel troops were approaching and summoned the commandant Zou Jing to discuss plans. Zou Jing said, “The rebels are many and our troops are few. My lord should raise more soldiers at once to meet the enemy.” Liu Yan approved his words and immediately posted proclamations calling for volunteers. When the proclamation reached the county of Zhuo, it brought forward a hero of that place.</string>
    <!--cliff:source: 那人不甚好讀書；性寬和，寡言語，喜怒不形於色；素有大志，專好結交天下豪傑 ；生得身長七尺五寸，兩耳垂肩，雙手過膝，目能自顧其耳，面如冠玉，脣若塗脂；中 山靖王劉勝之後，漢景帝閣下玄孫﹔姓劉，名備，字玄德。昔劉勝之子劉貞，漢武時封 涿鹿亭侯，後坐酬金失侯，因此遺這一枝在涿縣。玄德祖劉雄，父劉弘。弘曾舉孝廉， 亦嘗作吏，早喪。玄德幼孤，事母至孝；家貧，販屨織蓆為業。家住本縣樓桑村。其家 之東南，有一大桑樹，高五丈餘，遙望之，童童如車蓋。相者云：「此家必出貴人。」-->
    <string name="chapter-1-006">The man was not much given to reading books; his nature was generous and gentle, he spoke little, and joy or anger never showed on his face. He had long cherished great ambition and loved above all to befriend the heroes of the realm. He stood seven chi five cun tall, with ears that hung to his shoulders and hands that reached below his knees; he could turn his eyes and see his own ears. His face was like a crown of jade, his lips as though painted with vermilion. He was a descendant of Liu Sheng, Prince Jing of Zhongshan, and a great-great-grandson of Emperor Jing of Han. His surname was Liu, his given name Bei, his style Xuande. In former days Liu Zhen, son of Liu Sheng, had been made Marquis of Zhuolu Pavilion under Emperor Wu of Han; later he lost his rank through a fine of gold, and thus this branch of the family was left in the county of Zhuo. Xuande’s grandfather was Liu Xiong, his father Liu Hong. Liu Hong had been recommended as filial and incorrupt and had also served as an official, but he died young. Xuande was left an orphan, and he served his mother with the utmost filial piety; the family was poor, and he made his living selling straw sandals and weaving mats. His home was in Lou Sang Village of that county. To the southeast of his house stood a great mulberry tree, more than five zhang tall; seen from afar, it spread out like a carriage canopy. A physiognomist said, “This household is certain to produce a man of high rank.”</string>
    <!--cliff:source: 飛曰：「吾莊後有一桃園，花開正盛；明日當於園中祭告天地，我三人結為兄弟， 協力同心，然後可圖大事。」玄德、雲長、齊聲應曰：「如此甚好。」次日，於桃園中 ，備下烏牛白馬祭禮等項，三人焚香，再拜而說誓曰：「念劉備、關羽、張飛，雖然異 姓，既結為兄弟，則同心協力，救困扶危；上報國家，下安黎庶；不求同年同月同日生 ，但願同年同月同日死。皇天后土，實鑒此心。背義忘恩，天人共戮。」誓畢，拜玄德 為兄，關羽次之，張飛為弟。祭罷天地，復宰牛設酒，聚鄉中勇士，得三百餘人，就桃 園中痛飲一醉。來日收拾軍器，但恨無馬匹可乘。-->
    <string name="chapter-1-007">Zhang Fei said, “Behind my farm there is a peach garden, and the blossoms are at their finest. Tomorrow let us go there, offer sacrifice to Heaven and Earth, and become sworn brothers, so that with one heart and united strength we may undertake great things.” Xuande and Yunchang answered with one voice, “That would be excellent.” The next day, in the peach garden, they prepared a black ox, a white horse, and other offerings for the sacrifice. The three burned incense, bowed twice, and spoke this oath: “We, Liu Bei, Guan Yu, and Zhang Fei, though of different surnames, here become brothers. Henceforth we shall join hearts and strength to relieve the distressed and succor those in peril; above, we shall requite the state, below, we shall bring peace to the people. We do not ask to be born on the same year, the same month, and the same day, but we ask to die on the same year, the same month, and the same day. August Heaven and sovereign Earth, behold our hearts in truth. If we betray righteousness or forget gratitude, may Heaven and man alike put us to death.” When the oath was done, Xuande was honored as the eldest, Guan Yu next, and Zhang Fei as the youngest. After the sacrifice to Heaven and Earth, they slaughtered the ox and set out wine, gathered the stalwart men of the village, more than three hundred in all, and drank themselves merry in the peach garden. On the morrow they would prepare weapons of war, regretting only that they had no horses to ride.</string>
    <!--cliff:source: 英雄發穎在今朝，一試矛兮一試刀。初出便將威力展，三分好把姓名標。-->
    <string name="chapter-1-008">A hero\'s talent shines forth today; he tries his spear, he tries his blade. At his first appearance he displays his might; well may his name be inscribed among the Three.</string>
    <!--cliff:source: 次日，玄德與鄒靖，引軍鼓譟而進。賊眾迎戰，玄德引軍便退。賊眾乘勢追趕，方 過山嶺，玄德軍中一齊鳴金，左右兩軍齊出，玄德麾軍回身復殺。三路夾攻，賊眾大潰 。直趕至青州城下，太守龔景亦率民兵出城助戰。賊勢大敗，剿戮極多，遂解青州之圍 。後人有詩讚玄德曰：-->
    <string name="chapter-1-009">The next day Xuande and Zou Jing advanced with drums and shouts. The rebels came out to give battle, and Xuande led his troops in retreat. The rebels pressed the pursuit; but when they had crossed the hills, the gongs sounded together in Xuande’s camp, the two flanking armies came out at once, and Xuande wheeled his men about and charged back. Attacked on three sides, the rebels were utterly routed. They were chased right up to the walls of Qingzhou, where the governor Gong Jing also led out the local militia to join the fighting. The rebels suffered a great defeat; vast numbers of them were slain, and the siege of Qingzhou was lifted. Later men wrote a poem in praise of Xuande:</string>
    <!--cliff:source: 運籌決算有神功，二虎還須遜一龍。初出便能垂偉績，自應分鼎在孤窮。-->
    <string name="chapter-1-010">Divinely skilled in planning and in reckoning, even two tigers must yield to one dragon. Scarcely has he appeared when he leaves behind great deeds; well may he share the tripods though friendless and poor.</string>
    <!--cliff:source: 龔景犒軍畢，鄒靖欲回。玄德曰：「近聞中郎將盧植與賊首張角戰於廣宗，備昔曾 師事盧植，欲往助之。」於是鄒靖引軍自回，玄德與關、張引本部五百人投廣宗來。至 盧植軍中，入帳施禮，具道來意。盧植大喜，留在帳前聽調。-->
    <string name="chapter-1-011">When Gong Jing had finished rewarding the troops, Zou Jing wished to return. Xuande said, “I have lately heard that the General of the Household Lu Zhi is fighting the rebel leader Zhang Jiao at Guangzong. I once studied under Lu Zhi and wish to go and aid him.” So Zou Jing led his troops back, while Xuande, with Guan and Zhang, took his own five hundred men to Guangzong. Arriving in Lu Zhi’s camp, he entered the tent, made his salutations, and explained his purpose fully. Lu Zhi was delighted and kept him before the tent to await orders.</string>
    <!--cliff:source: 時張角賊眾十五萬，植兵五萬，相拒於廣宗，未見勝負。植謂玄德曰：「我今圍賊 在此，賊弟張梁，張寶在潁川，與皇甫嵩、朱雋對壘。汝可引本部人馬，我更助汝一千 官軍，前去潁川打探消息，約期剿捕。」玄德領命，引軍星夜投潁川來。時皇甫嵩、朱 雋領軍拒賊，賊戰不利，退入長社，依草結營。嵩與雋計曰：「賊依草結營，當用火攻 之。」遂令軍士，每人束草一把，暗地埋伏。其夜大風忽起。二更以後，一齊縱火，嵩 與雋各引兵攻擊賊寨，火燄張天，賊眾驚慌，馬不及鞍，人不及甲，四散奔走。殺到天 明，張梁、張寶引敗殘軍士，奪路而走。-->
    <string name="chapter-1-012">At that time Zhang Jiao’s rebels numbered one hundred and fifty thousand and Lu Zhi’s troops fifty thousand; they faced each other at Guangzong with no decision yet. Lu Zhi said to Xuande, “I have the rebels penned up here, while the rebel brothers Zhang Liang and Zhang Bao are at Yingchuan, facing Huangfu Song and Zhu Jun. You may take your own men, and I will add a thousand imperial troops, and go to Yingchuan to scout out the situation and fix a time for their extermination.” Xuande accepted the order and marched his troops by forced night marches to Yingchuan. Huangfu Song and Zhu Jun were then holding off the rebels, who had lost a battle and retreated into Changshe, where they made camp amid the dry grass. Song and Jun planned together: “The rebels have camped among the grass; we should attack them with fire.” So each soldier was ordered to bind a bundle of grass and lie hidden in ambush. That night a great wind suddenly arose. After the second watch they set fire all at once, and Song and Jun each led troops against the rebel camp. The flames reached to the sky; the rebels were thrown into confusion, so that men could not saddle their horses nor don their armor, and they scattered in all directions. The slaughter went on until dawn, when Zhang Liang and Zhang Bao gathered the remnants of their beaten soldiers and fought their way out.</string>
    <!--cliff:source: 忽見一彪軍馬，盡打紅旗，當頭來到，截往去路。為首閃出一將，身長七尺，細眼 長髯；官拜騎都尉；沛國譙郡人也：姓曹，名操，字孟德。操父曹嵩，本姓夏侯氏；因 為中常侍曹騰之養子，故冒姓曹。曹嵩生操，小字阿瞞，一名吉利。操幼時，好游獵， 喜歌舞；有權謀，多機變。操有叔父，見操游蕩無度，嘗怒之，言於曹嵩。嵩責操。操 忽心生一計：見叔父來，詐倒於地，作中風之狀。叔父驚告嵩，嵩急視之，操故無恙。 嵩曰：「叔言汝中風，今己愈乎？」操曰：「兒自來無此病；因失愛於叔父，故見罔耳 。」嵩信其言。後叔父但言操過，嵩並不聽。因此，操得恣意放蕩。-->
    <string name="chapter-1-013">Suddenly a body of troops appeared, all carrying red banners, coming straight toward them and cutting off the road. From their head there stepped out a general, seven chi tall, with narrow eyes and a long beard, holding the office of Household Cavalry commander. He was a man of the county of Qiao in the kingdom of Pei, by surname Cao, given name Cao, style Mengde. His father Cao Song had originally been of the Xiahou clan, but because he was the adopted son of the eunuch Cao Teng, he assumed the surname Cao. Cao Song begot Cao Cao, whose childhood name was A-Man and who was also called Jili. As a boy, Cao loved hunting and delighted in song and dance; he was crafty and full of schemes and tricks. Cao had an uncle who, seeing him idle and dissolute without restraint, often grew angry and spoke of it to Cao Song. Song reproved Cao. Then Cao suddenly hit on a scheme: when he saw his uncle coming, he pretended to fall to the ground in a fit of apoplexy. His uncle, alarmed, told Song, who hurried to look at him, and Cao was perfectly well. Song said, “Your uncle said you had a fit of apoplexy; are you recovered now?” Cao replied, “I have never had such an illness; it is only that I have lost my uncle’s affection, and so he deceives you about me.” Song believed his words, and thereafter, whenever the uncle spoke of Cao’s faults, Song paid no heed at all. Thus Cao was free to indulge himself as he pleased.</string>
    <!--cliff:source: 卻說玄德引關、張來潁川，聽得喊殺之聲，又望見火光燭天，急引兵來時，賊已敗 散。玄德見皇甫嵩，朱雋，其道盧植之意。嵩曰：「張梁、張寶勢窮力乏，必投廣宗去 依張角。玄德可即星夜往助。」-->
    <string name="chapter-1-014">Xuande, bringing Guan and Zhang with him, arrived at Yingchuan, heard the shouts of battle, and saw the flames lighting up the sky. He hurried his troops forward, but by then the rebels had already been routed and scattered. Xuande met Huangfu Song and Zhu Jun and explained Lu Zhi’s intention. Song said, “Zhang Liang and Zhang Bao are at the end of their strength; they will surely flee to Guangzong to join Zhang Jiao. You may set out at once by night to aid him.”</string>
    <!--cliff:source: 玄德領命，遂引兵復回。到得半路，只見一簇軍馬，護送一輛檻車，車中之囚，乃 盧植也。玄德大驚，滾鞍下馬，問其緣故。植曰：「我圍張角，將次可破；因角用妖術 ，未能即勝。朝廷差黃門左豐前來體探，問我索取賄賂。我答曰：『軍糧尚缺，安有餘 錢奉承天使？』左豐挾恨，回奏朝廷，說我高壘不戰，惰慢軍心；因此朝廷震怒，遣中 郎將董卓來代將我兵，取我回京問罪。」-->
    <string name="chapter-1-015">Xuande accepted the order and turned his troops about. Halfway along the road he saw a company of soldiers escorting a prison cart, and the prisoner in the cart was Lu Zhi. Xuande, greatly startled, slipped from his saddle and asked the reason. Lu Zhi said, “I had Zhang Jiao surrounded and was about to break him; but because Jiao used sorcery, I could not win at once. The court sent the Yellow Gate official Zuo Feng to inspect the situation, and he demanded bribes of me. I answered, ‘Our military grain is still short; how should I have spare money to flatter the Emperor’s envoy?’ Zuo Feng nursed his grudge and reported back to court that I had built high ramparts and would not fight, disheartening the troops. The court was enraged and sent the General of the Household Dong Zhuo to take command of my army in my place and bring me back to the capital for questioning.”</string>
    <!--cliff:source: 三人飛馬引軍而出。張角正殺敗董卓，乘勢趕來，忽遇三人衝殺，角軍大亂，敗走 五十餘里。三人救了董卓回寨。卓問三人現居何職。玄德曰：「白身。」卓甚輕之，不 為禮。玄德出，張飛大怒曰：「我等親赴血戰，救了這廝，他卻如此無禮﹔若不殺之， 難消我氣！」便要提刀入帳來殺董卓。正是：人情勢利古猶今，誰識英雄是白身？安得 快人如翼德，盡誅世上負心人！畢竟董卓性命如何，且看下文分解。-->
    <string name="chapter-1-016">The three galloped out at the head of their troops. Zhang Jiao, who had just beaten Dong Zhuo, was pressing his pursuit, when the three suddenly fell upon him. Zhang Jiao’s army was thrown into chaos and fled more than fifty li. The three rescued Dong Zhuo and brought him back to camp. Dong Zhuo asked what offices the three held. Xuande answered, “We are commoners.” Dong Zhuo held them in contempt and offered them no courtesy. When Xuande had gone out, Zhang Fei flew into a rage and said, “We rushed into bloody battle ourselves and saved the wretch, yet he treats us so rudely! If I do not kill him, my anger will never subside!” He was about to take up his sword and enter the tent to slay Dong Zhuo. Thus it is said: Men have ever courted power and profit, then as now; who knows a hero who is but a commoner? Where can one find a forthright man like Yide, to slay all the ingrates in the world? What became of Dong Zhuo’s life, we shall tell in the next chapter.</string>
    <!--cliff:source: 中平六年，夏四月，靈帝病篤，召大將軍何進入宮，商議後事。那何進起身屠家； 因妹入宮為貴人，生皇子辯，遂立為皇后，進由是得權重任。帝又寵幸王美人，生皇子 協。何后嫉妒，鴆殺王美人。皇子協養於董太后宮中。董太后乃靈帝之母，解瀆亭侯劉 萇之妻也。初因桓帝無子，迎立解瀆亭侯之子，是為靈帝。靈帝入繼大統，遂迎養母氏 於宮中，尊為太后。-->
    <string name="chapter-2-001">In the summer, the fourth month of the sixth year of Zhong Ping, Emperor Ling fell gravely ill and summoned the Great General He Jin into the palace to discuss affairs after his death. He Jin came of a family of butchers; because his sister had entered the palace as a consort and had borne the prince Bian, she was made empress, and through her He Jin gained power and high office. The Emperor also favored the beautiful Lady Wang, who bore the prince Xie. Empress He, in her jealousy, poisoned Lady Wang. Prince Xie was raised in the palace of the Empress Dowager Dong. The Empress Dowager Dong was Emperor Ling’s mother, the wife of Liu Chang, Marquis of Jiedu Pavilion. Formerly, because Emperor Huan had no son, Liu Chang’s son had been brought to court and made heir—this was Emperor Ling. When Emperor Ling succeeded to the throne, he brought his mother into the palace and honored her as Empress Dowager.</string>
    <!--cliff:source: 何進聽罷，出謂眾官曰：「蹇碩設謀害我，可族滅其家。其餘不必妄加殘害。」袁 紹曰：「若不斬草除根，必為喪身之本。」進曰：「吾意已決，汝勿多言。」眾官皆退 。-->
    <string name="chapter-2-002">When He Jin had heard them out, he came out and said to the assembled officials, “Jian Shuo plotted to do me harm; let his whole clan be exterminated. The rest need not be wantonly destroyed.” Yuan Shao said, “If you do not cut the grass and pull out the roots, it will surely bring about your own ruin.” He Jin said, “My mind is made up; say no more.” The officials all withdrew.</string>
    <!--cliff:source: 次日，太后命何進參錄尚書事，其餘皆封官職。董太后宣張讓等入宮商議曰：「何 進之妹，始初我抬舉他。今日他孩兒即皇帝位，內外臣僚，皆其心腹：威權太重，我將 如何？」讓奏曰：「娘娘可臨朝，垂簾聽政；封皇子協為王；加國舅董重大官，掌握軍 權；重用臣等：大事可圖矣。」-->
    <string name="chapter-2-003">The next day the Empress Dowager appointed He Jin to administer the affairs of the Imperial Secretariat, and the rest were given offices. The Empress Dowager Dong summoned Zhang Rang and the others into the palace for consultation, saying, “It was I who first raised up He Jin’s sister. Now her son has ascended the imperial throne, and the officials within and without the court are all her confidants; her power is too great. What shall I do?” Zhang Rang replied, “Your Highness may hold court yourself, sitting behind a screen to hear state affairs; enfeoff the prince Xie as a king; give the Empress Dowager’s brother Dong Zhong high office and command of the armies; and employ us in important posts. Then great things may be accomplished.”</string>
    <!--cliff:source: 董太后大喜。次日設朝，董太后降旨，封皇子協為陳留王，董重為驃騎將軍，張讓 等共預朝政。何太后見董太后專權，於宮中設一宴，請董太后赴席。酒至半酣，何太后 起身捧盃再拜曰：「我等皆婦人也，參預朝政，非其所宜。昔呂后因握重權，宗族千口 皆被戮。今我等宜深居九重；朝廷大事，任大臣元老自行商議，此國家之幸也。願垂聽 焉。」董太后大怒曰：「汝鴆死王美人，設心嫉妒。今倚汝子為君，與汝兄何進之勢， 輒敢亂言！吾敕驃騎斷汝兄首，如反掌耳！」何后亦怒曰：「吾以好言相勸，何反怒耶 ？」董后曰：「汝家屠沽小輩，有何見識！」-->
    <string name="chapter-2-004">The Empress Dowager Dong was delighted. The next day she held court and issued an edict making the prince Xie King of Chenliu, Dong Zhong General of the Flying Cavalry, and admitting Zhang Rang and the others to a share in the government. The Empress Dowager He, seeing the Empress Dowager Dong monopolize power, gave a banquet in the palace and invited her to attend. When the wine had gone halfway, the Empress Dowager He rose, raised her cup, bowed twice, and said, “We are but women, and it is not fitting for us to meddle in affairs of state. In former days, because Empress Lü grasped great power, a thousand souls of her clan were put to death. We should now keep to the inner palace and let the great ministers and elders deliberate among themselves on the affairs of state; that would be the country’s good fortune. I beg you to hear me.” The Empress Dowager Dong flew into a rage: “You poisoned Lady Wang out of sheer jealousy. Now, relying on your son as emperor and on your brother He Jin’s power, you dare to speak such reckless words! If I order the Flying Cavalry General to take your brother’s head, it will be as easy as turning my hand over!” The Empress Dowager He too grew angry: “I advised you with kind words; why do you turn angry instead?” The Empress Dowager Dong said, “You butcher’s and wine-seller’s brood, what understanding can you have?”</string>
    <!--cliff:source: 少頃，何進入白后，欲誅中涓。何后曰：「中官統領禁省，漢家故事。先帝新棄天 下，爾欲誅殺舊臣，非重宗廟也。」進本是沒決斷之人，聽太后言，唯唯而出。袁紹迎 問曰：「大事若何？」進曰：「太后不允，如之奈何？」紹曰：「可召四方英雄人士， 勒兵來京，盡誅閹豎。此時事急，不容太后不從。」進曰：「此計大妙！」便發檄至各 鎮，召赴京師。-->
    <string name="chapter-2-005">A short while later, He Jin entered and reported to the Empress Dowager, wishing to put the palace eunuchs to death. The Empress Dowager He said, “The eunuchs have commanded the palace precincts; that is the old custom of the Han house. The late Emperor has but just left the world, and you would put his old servants to death—that is no way to honor the ancestral temple.” He Jin was by nature a man who could not make up his mind; hearing the Empress Dowager’s words, he assented and withdrew. Yuan Shao met him and asked, “How goes the great matter?” He Jin said, “The Empress Dowager will not consent; what is to be done?” Shao said, “Summon the heroes and great men from every quarter to march their troops to the capital and put all the eunuchs to death. The matter is urgent now, and the Empress Dowager will have no choice but to agree.” He Jin said, “An excellent plan!” He at once sent proclamations to every military command, summoning them to the capital.</string>
    <!--cliff:source: 主簿陳琳曰：「不可！俗云：『掩目而捕燕雀』，是自欺也。微物尚不可欺以得志 ，況國家大事乎？今將軍仗皇威，掌兵要，龍驤虎步，高下在心：若欲誅宦官，如鼓洪 爐燎毛髮耳。但當速發，行權立斷，則天人順之﹔卻反外檄大臣，臨犯京闕，英雄聚會 ，各懷一心：所謂倒持干戈，授人以柄，功必一成，反生亂矣。」何進笑曰：「此懦夫 之見也！」傍邊一人鼓掌大笑曰：「此事易如反掌，何必多議！」視之，乃曹操也。正 是：欲除君側宵人亂，須聽朝中智士謀。不知曹操說出甚話來，且聽下文分解。-->
    <string name="chapter-2-006">Chen Lin, the registrar, said, “You must not! As the saying goes, ‘To catch a swallow with your eyes covered’—that is to deceive yourself. Even a small creature cannot be taken by such self-deception; how much less a matter of state! Now, General, you rely on the Emperor’s authority and hold the reins of the army; you stride like a dragon and a tiger, and all hangs upon your will. If you wish to put the eunuchs to death, it is like blowing up a great furnace to singe a hair. You need only act at once, wield your power, and decide on the spot; then Heaven and man will follow you. But instead you send proclamations to the great ministers outside, letting them march upon the capital gates. Heroes will gather, each with his own designs; it is what is called holding your weapon by the blade and handing the handle to another. Your work, once done, will instead breed disorder.” He Jin laughed and said, “That is the view of a coward!” Beside him someone clapped his hands and laughed aloud: “This is as easy as turning one’s hand; why so much discussion?” They looked and saw that it was Cao Cao. Thus it is said: To quell the mischief of villains about the throne, heed the counsel of the wise men in the court. What words Cao Cao spoke, we shall tell in the next chapter.</string>
</resources>