{
  "chapter-1": {
    "chapter-1-001": "On the full-moon day of the fourth month of the second year of Jianning, the Emperor held court in Wende Hall. Just as he ascended the throne, a wild wind suddenly rose from a corner of the hall, and a great green serpent flew down from the beam and coiled upon the chair. The Emperor fell down in fright; his attendants hurriedly carried him into the palace, and all the officials fled. In a moment, the snake vanished. Then came violent thunder and rain, together with hail, which fell until midnight and destroyed countless houses. In the second month of the fourth year of Jianning, an earthquake struck Luoyang; the sea overflowed, and the coastal residents were all swept into the sea by the great waves. In the first year of Guanghe, a hen turned into a rooster. On the first day of the sixth month, a black vapor over ten zhang long flew into Wende Hall. In the seventh month of autumn, a rainbow appeared over Yutang; the cliffs of Wuyuan Mountain all collapsed. These various omens of ill fortune were not confined to one event.",
    "chapter-1-002": "The Emperor issued an edict asking the ministers the cause of these calamities. Cai Yong, a Gentleman Consultant, submitted a memorial, believing that the fall of the rainbow and the hen turning into a rooster were caused by women and eunuchs meddling in government. His words were quite blunt and upright. After reading the memorial, the Emperor sighed and rose to change his clothes. Cao Jie, watching secretly from behind, told everything to those around him. He then framed Cai Yong on another charge and sent him back to his village. Later, Zhang Rang, Zhao Zhong, Feng Xu, Duan Gui, Cao Jie, Hou Lan, Jian Shuo, Cheng Kuang, Xia Yun, and Guo Sheng, ten men, banded together for wickedness and were called the 'Ten Regular Attendants.' The Emperor trusted Zhang Rang and called him 'Foster Father.' Day by day, court politics grew worse, until the hearts of the people turned to chaos and bandits rose like swarms of bees.",
    "chapter-1-003": "At that time, in Julu Commandery there were three brothers: one named Zhang Jiao, one Zhang Bao, and one Zhang Liang. Zhang Jiao had originally been a scholar who failed the examinations. Because he went into the mountains to gather herbs, he met an old man with blue eyes and a youthful face, holding a staff. The old man summoned Zhang Jiao into a cave and gave him three volumes of a heavenly book, saying: 'This is called The Essential Arts of Great Peace. If you obtain it, you should proclaim its teachings on behalf of Heaven and save all people. If you harbor disloyal thoughts, you will surely receive evil retribution.' Zhang Jiao bowed and asked his name. The old man said: 'I am the Old Immortal of Nanhua.' Having spoken, he turned into a gust of clear wind and departed.",
    "chapter-1-004": "When Zhang Jiao learned that the matter had been exposed, he raised troops overnight and called himself General of Heaven. Zhang Bao called himself General of Earth, and Zhang Liang called himself General of Man. He proclaimed to the crowd: 'Now the fortune of Han is about to end, and a great sage has appeared. You should all obey Heaven's will and work for Great Peace.' The common people from all quarters, wrapping yellow cloth around their heads, followed Zhang Jiao in rebellion—four or five hundred thousand of them. The rebel force was immense, and the government troops collapsed at the sight of them. He Jin memorialized the Emperor to issue an urgent edict ordering all regions to prepare defenses, suppress the rebels, and win merit. At the same time, he sent the Generals of the Household Lu Zhi, Huangfu Song, and Zhu Jun, each leading elite troops, to attack the rebels in three columns.",
    "chapter-1-005": "Now let us speak of one of Zhang Jiao's armies, which was advancing into the borders of You Province. The governor of You Province, Liu Yan, was a native of Jingling in Jiangxia and a descendant of Prince Gong of Lu of the Han. When he heard that the rebel troops were approaching, he summoned Colonel Zou Jing to discuss plans. Zou Jing said: 'The rebels are many and our troops are few. You, my lord, should quickly recruit soldiers to meet the enemy.' Liu Yan approved and immediately posted a notice calling for the recruitment of volunteer troops. When the notice reached Zhuo County, it brought forth a hero from within Zhuo County.",
    "chapter-1-006": "This man was not overly fond of reading. He was broad-minded and gentle, sparing of words, and did not reveal joy or anger on his face. He had long cherished great ambitions and loved to make friends with heroes throughout the realm. He grew to be seven chi five cun tall, with ears that hung to his shoulders, hands that reached past his knees, eyes that could turn to look at his own ears, a face like polished jade, and lips as if painted with vermilion. He was a descendant of Liu Sheng, Prince Jing of Zhongshan, and a great-great-grandson of Emperor Jing of Han. His surname was Liu, his given name Bei, and his courtesy name Xuande. Formerly, Liu Zhen, son of Liu Sheng, had been enfeoffed as Marquis of Zhuolu Pavilion in the time of Emperor Wu of Han; later, because of a fault concerning tribute money, he lost his title, and thus this branch of the family was left in Zhuo County. Xuande's grandfather was Liu Xiong, and his father Liu Hong. Liu Hong had once been recommended as filial and incorrupt and had also served as an official; he died early. Xuande was orphaned young and served his mother with utmost filial piety. The family was poor, and he made a living selling straw sandals and weaving mats. His home was in Lou Sang Village in the county. Southeast of his house stood a great mulberry tree over five zhang tall; seen from afar, it was lush and rounded like a carriage canopy. A physiognomist said: 'This household is sure to produce a noble person.'",
    "chapter-1-007": "Zhang Fei said: 'Behind my farm there is a peach garden, and the flowers are in full bloom. Tomorrow we should make sacrifice to Heaven and Earth in the garden, and the three of us will become sworn brothers, joining strength and heart. Then we can undertake a great enterprise.' Xuande and Yunchang answered together: 'That would be excellent.' The next day, in the peach garden, they prepared black oxen, white horses, and other sacrificial offerings. The three burned incense, bowed twice, and made this oath: 'We, Liu Bei, Guan Yu, and Zhang Fei, though of different surnames, have become brothers, and will unite our hearts and strength to rescue the distressed and aid those in peril. Above, we will repay our country; below, we will bring peace to the common people. We do not seek to be born on the same year, month, and day, but we ask only to die on the same year, month, and day. August Heaven and sovereign Earth, truly witness this heart. If we betray righteousness and forget gratitude, may Heaven and man alike put us to death.' When the oath was finished, Xuande was revered as the eldest brother, Guan Yu next, and Zhang Fei as the youngest. After the sacrifice to Heaven and Earth, they slaughtered the ox and set out wine, gathered the brave men of the village, and obtained more than three hundred men. There in the peach garden they drank deeply and got drunk. The next day they prepared weapons, but regretted only that they had no horses to ride.",
    "chapter-1-008": "The heroes reveal their talents on this day; one tries the spear, and one tries the blade. At their first appearance they display their might; in the Threefold Division, they will make their names known.",
    "chapter-1-009": "The next day, Xuande and Zou Jing led their troops forward with drums and shouts. The rebels came out to fight, and Xuande led his troops in retreat. The rebels took advantage of the situation and pursued. Just as they crossed the mountain ridge, the gongs sounded in Xuande's army, and the two wings emerged together. Xuande wheeled his troops around and struck again. Attacked from three directions, the rebels collapsed. They were pursued all the way to the walls of Qingzhou. The governor, Gong Jing, also led the local militia out of the city to join the battle. The rebels suffered a great defeat, and many were killed. Thus the siege of Qingzhou was lifted. Later generations praised Xuande in a poem:",
    "chapter-1-010": "His plans and calculations worked with godlike skill; even two tigers must yield to one dragon. From his first appearance he achieved great deeds; surely he was destined to divide the tripod though orphaned and poor.",
    "chapter-1-011": "After Gong Jing had rewarded the troops, Zou Jing wished to return. Xuande said: 'I have recently heard that General of the Household Lu Zhi is fighting the rebel leader Zhang Jiao at Guangzong. I once studied under Lu Zhi and wish to go assist him.' So Zou Jing led his troops back, while Xuande, with Guan Yu and Zhang Fei, led his own five hundred men to Guangzong. Arriving at Lu Zhi's camp, they entered the tent, paid their respects, and explained their purpose. Lu Zhi was delighted and kept them before his tent awaiting orders.",
    "chapter-1-012": "At that time Zhang Jiao's rebel host numbered one hundred fifty thousand, while Lu Zhi had fifty thousand troops. They faced each other at Guangzong with no victory yet decided. Lu Zhi said to Xuande: 'I am now besieging the rebels here, while the rebel brothers Zhang Liang and Zhang Bao are at Yingchuan, facing Huangfu Song and Zhu Jun. You may lead your own troops, and I will further aid you with a thousand government soldiers, to go to Yingchuan and scout the situation and set a time to suppress them.' Xuande accepted the order and led his troops by forced marches to Yingchuan. At that time Huangfu Song and Zhu Jun were leading troops against the rebels, who had fought unsuccessfully and retreated into Changshe, where they made camp relying on dry grass. Song and Jun planned: 'The rebels have camped among the grass; we should attack them with fire.' They ordered each soldier to bind a bundle of grass and lay an ambush in secret. That night a great wind suddenly arose. After the second watch, they set fire all at once. Song and Jun each led troops to attack the rebel camp. Flames reached the sky, and the rebels were panicked; horses were not saddled, men were not armored, and they scattered in all directions. The slaughter continued until dawn, when Zhang Liang and Zhang Bao led the remnants of their defeated troops and fled by whatever road they could.",
    "chapter-1-013": "Suddenly a body of troops appeared, all carrying red banners, coming straight toward them and blocking their retreat. From the front flashed a general, seven chi tall, with narrow eyes and a long beard. He held the office of Cavalry Commandant and was a native of Qiao Commandery in the State of Pei. His surname was Cao, his name Cao, and his courtesy name Mengde. Cao Cao's father was Cao Song, originally of the Xiahou clan; because he was the adopted son of the eunuch Cao Teng, he assumed the surname Cao. Cao Song begot Cao Cao, whose childhood name was A-Man, also called Jili. When young, Cao Cao loved hunting and delighted in song and dance; he was skilled in schemes and full of cunning. Cao Cao had an uncle who, seeing Cao Cao idle and unrestrained, was often angry with him and reported him to Cao Song. Cao Song reproved Cao Cao. Cao Cao then devised a plan: when he saw his uncle coming, he pretended to collapse to the ground in a fit of apoplexy. His uncle, alarmed, told Cao Song, who hurried to look at him, but Cao Cao was perfectly well. Cao Song said: 'Your uncle said you had apoplexy; are you recovered now?' Cao Cao replied: 'I have never had such an illness. It is only because I have lost your uncle's affection that he deceives you about me.' Cao Song believed him. Afterward, whenever the uncle spoke of Cao Cao's faults, Cao Song would not listen. Thus Cao Cao was able to indulge himself as he pleased.",
    "chapter-1-014": "Now when Xuande led Guan Yu and Zhang Fei to Yingchuan, they heard the cries of battle and saw firelight illuminating the sky. They hurried their troops forward, but the rebels had already been scattered. Xuande met Huangfu Song and Zhu Jun and explained Lu Zhi's intention. Song said: 'Zhang Liang and Zhang Bao are exhausted and at their wit's end; they will surely flee to Guangzong to join Zhang Jiao. Xuande, you should go at once by forced marches to assist there.'",
    "chapter-1-015": "Xuande accepted the order and led his troops back. Halfway along the road, he saw a cluster of soldiers escorting a prison cart, and the prisoner in the cart was Lu Zhi. Xuande was greatly shocked; he slipped from the saddle, dismounted, and asked the reason. Lu Zhi said: 'I was besieging Zhang Jiao and was about to defeat him, but because Zhang Jiao used sorcery, I could not win immediately. The court sent the Yellow Gate official Zuo Feng to inspect the situation, and he demanded bribes from me. I answered that our military grain was still short—how could I have surplus money to flatter the imperial envoy? Zuo Feng bore a grudge and memorialized the court, saying that I built high ramparts and would not fight, and that I was lax and demoralized the troops. Therefore the court was enraged and sent the General of the Household Dong Zhuo to take command of my troops in my place, and to bring me back to the capital for questioning.'",
    "chapter-1-016": "The three men galloped out with their troops. Zhang Jiao had just defeated Dong Zhuo and was pursuing him when he suddenly encountered the three charging and killing. Zhang Jiao's army fell into confusion and retreated more than fifty li. The three rescued Dong Zhuo and returned to camp. Dong Zhuo asked what offices the three held. Xuande said: 'We are commoners.' Dong Zhuo greatly slighted them and showed them no courtesy. When Xuande left, Zhang Fei flew into a rage and said: 'We personally rushed into bloody battle and saved this fellow, yet he is so rude. If I do not kill him, I cannot vent my anger!' He was about to seize his sword and enter the tent to kill Dong Zhuo. Thus it is said: Human nature favors power and profit, in ancient times as today; who recognizes a hero when he is a commoner? If only there were a forthright man like Yide, to slay all the ingrates in the world! What became of Dong Zhuo's life? Pray read the next chapter for the explanation."
  },
  "chapter-2": {
    "chapter-2-001": "In the sixth year of Zhongping, summer, fourth month, Emperor Ling was gravely ill. He summoned General-in-Chief He Jin into the palace to discuss matters after his death. He Jin came from a family of butchers; because his sister entered the palace as a concubine and gave birth to Prince Bian, she was made empress, and He Jin thereby gained power and high office. The Emperor also favored Lady Wang, who gave birth to Prince Xie. Empress He was jealous and poisoned Lady Wang. Prince Xie was raised in the palace of Empress Dowager Dong. Empress Dowager Dong was Emperor Ling's mother, wife of Liu Chang, Marquis of Jiedu Pavilion. Originally, because Emperor Huan had no son, Liu Chang's son was welcomed and made emperor—this was Emperor Ling. When Emperor Ling succeeded to the throne, he brought his mother into the palace to be cared for and honored her as empress dowager.",
    "chapter-2-002": "When He Jin had heard all, he went out and said to the assembled officials: 'Jian Shuo plotted to harm me; his whole clan should be exterminated. The rest need not be wantonly harmed.' Yuan Shao said: 'If you do not cut the grass and pull out the roots, it will surely be the ruin of you.' He Jin said: 'My mind is made up. Say no more.' All the officials withdrew.",
    "chapter-2-003": "The next day, the Empress Dowager ordered He Jin to participate in the affairs of the Imperial Secretariat, and the rest were all granted official posts. Empress Dowager Dong summoned Zhang Rang and others into the palace to discuss, saying: 'He Jin's sister—I was the one who first promoted her. Now her child has ascended the imperial throne, and all officials inside and outside the court are her confidants. Her power is too great. What shall I do?' Zhang Rang replied: 'Your Highness may hold court from behind the curtain and listen to government affairs; enfeoff Prince Xie as a prince; grant the Empress Dowager's brother Dong Zhong a high office and put military power in his hands; and employ us greatly. Then the great matter can be accomplished.'",
    "chapter-2-004": "Empress Dowager Dong was overjoyed. The next day, when court was held, Empress Dowager Dong issued an edict enfeoffing Prince Xie as Prince of Chenliu, Dong Zhong as General of Agile Cavalry, and Zhang Rang and others jointly to participate in court affairs. Empress Dowager He, seeing Empress Dowager Dong monopolize power, held a banquet in the palace and invited Empress Dowager Dong to attend. When the wine had gone halfway to intoxication, Empress Dowager He rose, raised her cup, bowed twice, and said: 'We are both women, and it is not fitting for us to participate in court affairs. In the past, because Empress Lü grasped great power, a thousand members of her clan were slain. Now we should remain deep within the palace; let the great ministers and elder statesmen discuss court affairs themselves. This would be a blessing for the state. I hope you will graciously listen.' Empress Dowager Dong flew into a rage and said: 'You poisoned Lady Wang to death out of jealousy. Now, relying on your son being emperor and on the power of your brother He Jin, you dare speak recklessly! I could order the General of Agile Cavalry to cut off your brother's head as easily as turning over my hand!' Empress He also angrily said: 'I urged you with kind words—why do you instead grow angry?' Empress Dowager Dong said: 'You are a lowly butcher's family—what understanding could you have?'",
    "chapter-2-005": "After a short while, He Jin entered and reported to the Empress Dowager that he wished to execute the palace attendants. Empress Dowager He said: 'It has been the Han custom for eunuchs to oversee the palace. The late Emperor has just departed the world, and you wish to kill his old servants—this is not to honor the ancestral temple.' He Jin was by nature indecisive. Hearing the Empress Dowager's words, he assented and withdrew. Yuan Shao met him and asked: 'How goes the great matter?' He Jin said: 'The Empress Dowager will not consent. What can be done?' Yuan Shao said: 'You may summon heroes from all quarters and order them to bring troops to the capital and put all the eunuchs to death. At this critical moment, the Empress Dowager will have no choice but to comply.' He Jin said: 'This plan is excellent!' He then sent urgent proclamations to the various garrisons, summoning them to the capital.",
    "chapter-2-006": "The Registrar Chen Lin said: 'Do not do this! As the proverb says, to cover your eyes and catch sparrows is self-deception. Even a small creature cannot be caught by deceiving it; how much less can a great affair of state be? Now, General, you rely on imperial authority and hold the military power. You march like a dragon and stride like a tiger; high and low are in your heart. If you wish to execute the eunuchs, it is like blowing on a great furnace to singe a hair. You should simply act quickly, exercise authority, and make an immediate decision; then Heaven and man will follow you. Instead, you would send proclamations to outside ministers, bringing them to the capital gates. When heroes gather, each will harbor his own intentions. This is what is called holding the spear and halberd upside down and handing the handle to another. The deed may be accomplished once, but disorder will arise instead.' He Jin laughed and said: 'This is the view of a coward!' Beside him, a man clapped his hands and laughed loudly, saying: 'This matter is as easy as turning over one's hand. Why discuss it so much?' They looked and saw it was Cao Cao. Thus it is said: If you would remove the petty men who cause disorder at the ruler's side, you must listen to the wise counselors in the court. What Cao Cao said, pray hear the next chapter explain."
  }
}