/* cliff:source: Siso's depictions of land, water center new gallery exhibition */
"test-en-news-beverly-press-3585-1" = "西索对土地与水的描绘，成为新画廊展览的重头戏";
/* cliff:source: "People Swimming in the Swimming Pool" from 2022 is one Vicente Siso artwork that will display at Tierra del Sol Gallery beginning Jan. 13. (photo courtesy of Vicente Siso) */
"test-en-news-beverly-press-3585-2" = "《泳池中游泳的人们》创作于2022年，是维森特·西索的一件作品，将于1月13日起在Tierra del Sol画廊展出。（图片由维森特·西索提供）";
/* cliff:source: Tierra del Sol is pleased to present "Vicente Siso: Memories of the Land and Water" at the new gallery location in West Hollywood. Siso has been an artist in the Studio Arts Program since 2012, this marks his debut solo exhibition. Siso was born 1962 in Madrid and raised between Venezuela, Trinidad and Miami; he moved with his family to Southern California in his early 20s. */
"test-en-news-beverly-press-3585-3" = "Tierra del Sol欣然呈献“维森特·西索：土地与水的记忆”，展出于西好莱坞的新画廊地点。西索自2012年起一直是Studio Arts Program的艺术家，此次是他的首次个展。西索1962年生于马德里，在委内瑞拉、特立尼达和迈阿密之间长大；20岁出头时随家人搬到南加州。";
/* cliff:source: Masterfully working across subject matter, Siso has generated a prolific series of landscapes, portraits, and still-life works rendered in either acrylic, pastel, pencil or watercolor. Drawing from family portraits, his own reference photographs, and recollection, his colorful compositions demonstrate his range of interests and skill across media. Siso's tropical landscapes and seascapes reflect the geographies of his past, employing rich patterns and incorporating people to make meaningful connections between culture, memory and the environment. Siso titles his artworks in a mix of Spanish and English, signifying the celebrated and integral complexities of his life in Los Angeles County. "Vicente Siso: Memories of the Land and Water" opens on Saturday, Jan. 13, with a reception from 6-8 p.m. The exhibition is on view through Sunday, March 3. */
"test-en-news-beverly-press-3585-4" = "西索游刃有余地驾驭多种题材，创作了大量风景、肖像和静物作品，媒介涵盖丙烯、粉彩、铅笔或水彩。他从家庭肖像、自己拍摄的参考照片和回忆中汲取素材，色彩丰富的构图展现出他广泛的兴趣和跨媒介的技艺。西索笔下的热带风景与海景映照着他过往生活的地理，运用丰富的图案并融入人物，在文化、记忆与环境之间建立有意义的联系。西索为作品命名时混用西班牙语和英语，彰显了他在洛杉矶县生活中那些为人称道且不可或缺的复杂面向。“维森特·西索：土地与水的记忆”将于1月13日星期六开幕，招待会时间为下午6点至8点。展览持续至3月3日星期日。";
/* cliff:source: The Tierra del Sol Gallery is located at 7414 Santa Monica Blvd. For information, visit tierradelsolgallery.org. */
"test-en-news-beverly-press-3585-5" = "Tierra del Sol画廊位于圣莫尼卡大道7414号。欲了解信息，请访问tierradelsolgallery.org。";
/* cliff:source: Adapt the old, accommodate the new to solve issue */
"test-en-news-brisbanetimes-com-au-228963-6" = "改造旧有，容纳新需，以解决问题";
/* cliff:source: At the precinct level, we just need to look at the Sydney CBD as an example of an area which has grown from its pre-settlement landscape into a two-storey city, from a maximum height of 150 feet to the soaring towers of today. At a much scaled-down level, the same can occur across Sydney's town centres located around transport nodes. Inner suburbs must also evolve, with a swing to more affordable apartment living at heights below the tree tops on key sites. Of course, the new growth in housing needs to be well-designed and trees, landscaping and parks need to be included along with other essential infrastructure. */
"test-en-news-brisbanetimes-com-au-228963-7" = "在片区层面，只需看看悉尼中央商务区：这一区域从殖民前的地貌发展为两层楼高的城市，又从最高150英尺的建筑，变成今日高耸的楼群。把尺度大大缩小，同样的情况也可以发生在悉尼各处围绕交通节点布局的城镇中心。内城郊区也必须演变，在关键地块转向树冠高度以下、更可负担的公寓生活。当然，住房的新增长需要精心设计，还必须把树木、景观和公园与其他必要基础设施一并纳入。";
/* cliff:source: Our planning system also needs to adapt so that planners in suburban councils, who seem to be less supportive of change, are not the only determinants of the future shape of their suburbs. A way forward could be to have an independent decision-making body that championed quality design as long as it fitted below the tree tops and incorporated family living, large balconies, common gardens and presented a friendly appearance. This could be a role for the current NSW government architect working within a carefully crafted complying code. */
"test-en-news-brisbanetimes-com-au-228963-8" = "我们的规划体系也需要调整，不能让郊区议会中那些似乎不太支持变革的规划者，成为其郊区未来形态的唯一决定者。前进之道可以是设立一个独立决策机构，只要设计低于树冠高度、包含家庭居住空间、大阳台、公共花园，并呈现友善外观，就大力倡导高质量设计。这或许可以由现任新南威尔士州政府建筑师在精心制定的合规规范内承担。";
/* cliff:source: Over the past decade, our lives have changed through technology, with many working from home, and Sydney has gained an impressive network of metro and light rail systems. Our ability to purchase online has changed the way we shop, and friends and family seem closer because of smartphone communication. All of these adaptations from one system to another can also occur in our built environment through a planning focus on adaptive reuse rather than preferencing heritage preservation. */
"test-en-news-brisbanetimes-com-au-228963-9" = "过去十年，科技改变了我们的生活，许多人居家办公，悉尼也建成了令人瞩目的地铁和轻轨网络。在线购物的能力改变了我们的购物方式，智能手机通信让亲友之间显得更亲近。所有这些从一个系统到另一个系统的适应，也可以发生在我们的人居环境中，方法是把规划重点放在适应性再利用上，而不是优先保护遗产。";
/* cliff:source: Chris Johnson is a former NSW government architect (1995-2005) and executive director, NSW Department of Planning (2005-2009). He was CEO of Urban Taskforce Australia between 2011 and 2019. */
"test-en-news-brisbanetimes-com-au-228963-10" = "克里斯·约翰逊曾任新南威尔士州政府建筑师（1995—2005年），以及新南威尔士州规划局执行主任（2005—2009年）。2011年至2019年间，他担任澳大利亚城市工作组（Urban Taskforce Australia）首席执行官。";
/* cliff:source: A final push for female equality */
"test-en-news-csmonitor-com-7750-11" = "为女性平等做最后冲刺";
/* cliff:source: Last year, the World Economic Forum forecast that it would take five generations to achieve gender equality in every nation. Now the World Bank wants to rapidly accelerate that time frame. */
"test-en-news-csmonitor-com-7750-12" = "去年，世界经济论坛预测，要在每个国家实现性别平等需要五代人的时间。如今，世界银行希望大幅加快这一时间表。";
/* cliff:source: The international financial institution is poised to launch a strategy aimed at significantly advancing the rights and economic opportunities for girls and women by 2030. The plan focuses on improving inclusivity and resilience through access to finance, technological innovation, and changes in public policy and law. */
"test-en-news-csmonitor-com-7750-13" = "这家国际金融机构即将启动一项战略，目标是在2030年前显著推进女童和女性的权利与经济机会。该计划侧重于通过融资渠道、技术创新以及公共政策和法律变革，提升包容性和韧性。";
/* cliff:source: "Recent research demonstrates that both social norms and mindsets can change, for example, that engaging men and boys can foster their support and buy-in for gender equality," a consultative draft of the plan states. "Positive gender outcomes can be accelerated and scaled with a better understanding of ... how social norms and mindsets shape everyday expectations, priorities, and practices." */
"test-en-news-csmonitor-com-7750-14" = "该计划的一份磋商草案称：“近期研究表明，社会规范和思维方式都可以改变，例如，让男性与男孩参与其中，可以促进他们对性别平等的支持和认同。如果能更好地理解……社会规范和思维方式如何塑造日常期望、优先事项和做法，积极的性别成果就能加速实现并扩大规模。”";
/* cliff:source: Shifts in thought are harder to quantify than bank loans for rural women or school enrollment for girls. Yet there is plenty of evidence that female agency can move mountains. In Iran, for example, women have led the greatest threat to the Islamic government in 40 years simply by refusing to comply with laws that force them to cover their hair. In some of the 130 countries with minimum quotas for female representation in government, such as India, male resistance to female voting and political activism has eased. */
"test-en-news-csmonitor-com-7750-15" = "思想转变比向农村女性提供银行贷款或让女童入学更难量化。然而，大量证据表明，女性自主能动性可以移山倒海。例如在伊朗，女性仅仅通过拒绝遵守强制遮盖头发的法律，就领导了40年来对伊斯兰政府最大的威胁。在130个为女性参政设定最低配额的国家中，有些国家——比如印度——男性对女性投票和政治活动的抵制已经缓和。";
/* cliff:source: In some rural African communities, civil society organizations are replacing a harmful rite of passage with health education. One such program helped Kamanda Timayio, leader of the Masai village of Maparasha, Kenya, change his mind about female genital mutilation. He told Le Monde that he had "emerged from ignorance" and would abandon the practice. */
"test-en-news-csmonitor-com-7750-16" = "在非洲一些农村社区，民间社会组织正在用健康教育取代一种有害的成人礼。其中一个项目帮助肯尼亚马帕拉沙马赛村的领袖卡曼达·蒂马约改变了对女性生殖器切割的看法。他告诉《世界报》，自己已经“摆脱无知”，将放弃这一做法。";
/* cliff:source: The World Bank cites other examples. From 1970 to 2022, Bangladesh quadrupled female literacy rates and doubled female participation in the labor force. Its gross domestic product more than tripled. The change gathered its own momentum. Recruiting salaried women as teachers and health workers from within their own communities boosted trust "and made women's mobility and work more socially acceptable." */
"test-en-news-csmonitor-com-7750-17" = "世界银行还列举了其他例子。从1970年到2022年，孟加拉国女性识字率增长至四倍，女性劳动参与率翻了一番。其国内生产总值增长了两倍多。这种变化形成了自身的势头。从女性所在社区中聘用领取薪水的女性担任教师和卫生工作者，增强了信任，“也使女性的出行和工作在社会上更容易被接受。”";
/* cliff:source: The bank's plan would target norms and institutions that may still require generational shifts. It has taken Rwanda more than two decades to establish itself as a model for land reforms that boost economic empowerment for women."No one benefits if women are held back," Rwanda President Paul Kagame said, arguing for land reform in 2015. "We have to change mindsets, not just the laws." */
"test-en-news-csmonitor-com-7750-18" = "该银行的计划将针对可能仍需代际转变的规范和制度。卢旺达用了二十多年才成为通过土地改革增强女性经济赋权的典范。“如果女性被束缚，没有人会受益，”卢旺达总统保罗·卡加梅在2015年为土地改革辩护时说，“我们必须改变思维方式，而不只是法律。”";
/* cliff:source: The World Bank hopes to spread that message. */
"test-en-news-csmonitor-com-7750-19" = "世界银行希望传播这一信息。";
/* cliff:source: German farmers and train drivers are scaring Germany's bosses */
"test-en-news-economist-14223-20" = "德国农民和火车司机令德国老板们心惊";
/* cliff:source: In Germany, where workers and bosses run many companies jointly, a big strike is unusual. A wave of big strikes is almost unheard of. Right now the country of "co-determination" is simultaneously facing an eight-day "action week" by irate farmers, who blocked roads with tractors, a three-day strike of railway workers and, to top it off, a looming strike of doctors, who already closed surgeries between Christmas and New Year's Day. This Mistgabelmop (pitchfork mob), as some have taken to calling it, will test Germany's harmonious labour relations in the year to come. */
"test-en-news-economist-14223-21" = "在德国，工人和雇主共同管理许多公司，因此大罢工并不寻常。一波大罢工更是几乎闻所未闻。眼下，这个奉行“共同决定制”的国家同时面临：愤怒的农民举行为期八天的“行动周”，用拖拉机堵塞道路；铁路工人举行为期三天的罢工；更糟的是，医生也威胁要罢工——他们已在圣诞节到元旦期间关闭了诊所。有人开始把这一切称为Mistgabelmop（干草叉暴民），它将考验德国未来一年的和谐劳资关系。";
/* cliff:source: The protests were ostensibly set off by the government's decision to end subsidies for diesel fuel used in agriculture and to cut an exemption from car tax for farm vehicles. These measures pushed farmers over the edge. It also mobilised other angry workers, already straining under the pressure of inflation, recession and the government's self-imposed austerity. On January 9th drivers of freight and passenger trains at Deutsche Bahn, the national railway, began a strike over working hours and pay. */
"test-en-news-economist-14223-22" = "表面上看，抗议是由政府决定取消农业柴油补贴、并取消农用车辆免征汽车税的政策引发的。这些措施把农民逼到了极限，也动员了其他愤怒的工人——他们本已在通胀、衰退和政府自我施加的紧缩压力下不堪重负。1月9日，国家铁路德国铁路公司（Deutsche Bahn）的货运和客运列车司机因工作时间和薪酬问题开始罢工。";
/* cliff:source: In an effort to defuse the tension with the farmers, the government agreed to a gradual removal of the diesel subsidy over three years and to keeping the exemption from the car tax. The farmers pooh-poohed the concessions as insufficient. On January 4th an aggressive group of them prevented Robert Habeck, the economy minister, from disembarking from a ferry on his return from a family holiday. If the train drivers are similarly unimpressed, that could prove expensive for German business, reckons IW Köln, a think-tank. The rail strike could cost businesses €100m ($110m) a day if it forced them to interrupt production. The car, chemical and steel industries, Germany's biggest, are especially reliant on rail transport. */
"test-en-news-economist-14223-23" = "为了缓和与农民的紧张关系，政府同意在三年内逐步取消柴油补贴，并保留汽车税豁免。农民对这些让步嗤之以鼻，认为远远不够。1月4日，一群激进的农民阻止经济部长罗伯特·哈贝克结束家庭度假后从渡轮上上岸。智库科隆经济研究所（IW Köln）认为，如果火车司机同样不买账，这可能让德国企业付出高昂代价。铁路罢工如果迫使企业中断生产，每天可能给企业造成1亿欧元（1.1亿美元）的损失。德国最大的汽车、化工和钢铁行业尤其依赖铁路运输。";
/* cliff:source: The workers" mood is increasingly angry. "Appeals are circulating with fantasies of revolution," warned Mr Habeck. The far-right Alternative for Germany party is doing its best to fan the grievances. In Dresden the Free Saxons, another far-right group, infiltrated the farmers" protest calling for the "extinction of the traffic light" (as the governing coalition of the Social Democrats, Free Democrats and Greens is referred to because of their party colours). */
"test-en-news-economist-14223-24" = "工人的情绪越来越愤怒。“各种带革命幻想的呼吁正在流传，”哈贝克警告说。极右翼政党德国选择党正竭力煽动不满。在德累斯顿，另一个极右翼团体“自由萨克森人”混入农民的抗议活动，呼吁“让红绿灯熄灭”（这是对由社民党、自民党和绿党组成的执政联盟的称呼，因其政党颜色而得名）。";
/* cliff:source: Thomas Puls of IW Köln fears that the strikes will harm the image of Germany as a place for business. Local bosses are already fretting about a German version of the gilets jaunes protests in France in 2018, which culminated in yellow-jacketed demonstrators torching cars on the Champs-Elysées and the police stepping in with tear gas. Jochen Kopelke, head of Germany's police union, warned in an interview with Tagesspiegel, a daily, that the farmers were probably "just the start of an enormous wave of protest this year." Germany was the only big economy to shrink in 2023, and the year ended on an especially sour note, with an unexpected drop in business confidence in December. This year is shaping up to be even tougher. */
"test-en-news-economist-14223-25" = "科隆经济研究所的托马斯·普尔斯担心，罢工将损害德国作为经商之地的形象。本地老板们已经在担心德国会出现2018年法国“黄马甲”抗议的翻版——那场抗议最终演变为身穿黄色背心的示威者在香榭丽舍大街焚烧汽车，警察动用催泪瓦斯介入。德国警察工会主席约亨·科佩尔克在接受《每日镜报》采访时警告说，农民的抗议很可能“只是今年巨大抗议浪潮的开端”。德国是2023年唯一萎缩的大型经济体，而这一年在尤其糟糕的氛围中结束：12月企业信心意外下降。今年的形势看来会更加严峻。";
/* cliff:source: Brewers froth over winemakers" exemption from anti-waste rules */
"test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-26" = "啤酒商不满葡萄酒商获反浪费规则豁免";
/* cliff:source: As the EU debates rules to limit packaging waste, beer producers argue they are being unfairly discriminated against with exemptions for winemakers from reuse targets and deposit-return schemes, but one of Europe's wine industry association chiefs says brewers should "mind their own business." */
"test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-27" = "在欧盟讨论限制包装废弃物的规则之际，啤酒生产商认为，葡萄酒商在再利用目标和押金回收制度方面获得豁免，使他们受到不公平歧视；但欧洲葡萄酒行业协会的一位负责人说，啤酒商应当“管好自己的事”。";
/* cliff:source: European brewers have warned that exempting wine and not beer from deposit return schemes and reuse targets is unfair and potentially illegal, as lawmakers enter final talks over a new law designed to turn a surging tide of packaging waste across the EU. */
"test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-28" = "欧洲啤酒酿造商警告说，在押金回收制度和再利用目标上只豁免葡萄酒而不豁免啤酒，既不公平也可能违法。此时，立法者正就一项旨在扭转欧盟各地包装废弃物激增趋势的新法律进入最后谈判。";
/* cliff:source: Environment ministers agreed an EU Council negotiating mandate on the proposed Packaging and Packaging Waste Regulation (PPWR) before Christmas, paving the way for imminent political talks with the European Parliament, which are already underway at the technical level. */
"test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-29" = "圣诞节前，环境部长们就拟议的《包装和包装废弃物法规》（PPWR）达成了欧盟理事会谈判授权，为即将与欧洲议会进行的政治谈判铺平道路；相关技术层面的谈判已经在进行。";
/* cliff:source: "Our position is clear," the trade association Brewers of Europe wrote to MEPs and government negotiators (10 January). "If targets and mandatory requirements in the PPWR apply to beer then there is a legal obligation that they apply to all alcoholic beverage categories." */
"test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-30" = "行业协会“欧洲啤酒酿造商”在致欧洲议会议员和政府谈判代表（1月10日）的信中写道：“我们的立场很明确。如果PPWR中的目标和强制性要求适用于啤酒，那么就有法律义务让它们适用于所有酒精饮料类别。”";
/* cliff:source: The 18 December ministerial summit yielded a carve out for winemakers from the requirement that, by the end of the decade, 10% of products must be supplied in reusable containers within a system for reuse or refill, rising to 40% in 2040. The exemption would also apply to the requirement, likewise supported by the European Parliament, that wine should be exempt from deposit-return schemes that should be put in place by 2029 under the proposal. */
"test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-31" = "12月18日的部长级峰会为葡萄酒商争取到了豁免，使他们不必遵守到本十年末，10%的产品必须通过再利用或再填充系统以可重复使用容器供应的要求；该比例将在2040年升至40%。这项豁免还将适用于另一项要求：根据提案，葡萄酒应免于2029年前应建立的押金回收制度；欧洲议会同样支持该要求。";
/* cliff:source: Both the Czech and Belgian ministers immediately expressed reservations at the 18 December summit about the unequal treatment for brewers, but acquiesced. Belgium, which now chairs the rotating EU Council presidency and is therefore in principle neutral in terms of inter-governmental negotiations, hopes to clinch a deal with the parliament by early March. */
"test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-32" = "在12月18日的峰会上，捷克和比利时部长都立即对啤酒酿造商受到的不平等待遇表示保留，但最终还是默许了。比利时目前担任欧盟理事会轮值主席国，因此在政府间谈判中原则上保持中立，希望最迟在3月初与欧洲议会达成协议。";
/* cliff:source: Ignacio Sánchez Recarte, secretary general of the Comité Européen des Entreprises Vins trade association representing some 7,000 wine producers across Europe, is dismissive of the concerns of the beer makers. He told Euronews that a market dominated by multinational brewing conglomerates bears no comparison with one comprised almost entirely of small, domestic producers. */
"test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-33" = "代表欧洲约7000家葡萄酒生产商的行业协会欧洲葡萄酒企业委员会（Comité Européen des Entreprises Vins）秘书长伊格纳西奥·桑切斯·雷卡特，对啤酒制造商的担忧不以为然。他告诉欧洲新闻台，一个由跨国酿造集团主导的市场，与一个几乎全由小型本土生产商组成的市场，根本不可同日而语。";
/* cliff:source: More than 99% of the domestic wine sector is made up of micro- to medium-sized companies, Sánchez Recarte said, questioning the solidity of legal arguments made by brewers and asserting that his organisation had focused on presenting policy makers with information "relevant and appropriate" to its own industry. */
"test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-34" = "桑切斯·雷卡特说，国内葡萄酒行业超过99%的企业都是微型到中型公司。他质疑啤酒酿造商法律论据的坚实性，并坚称他的组织一直专注于向政策制定者提供与其自身行业“相关且适当”的信息。";
/* cliff:source: "It is not my role to estimate if the beer sector should have this or that target, as it would depend on the intrinsic characteristics of their own sector," Sánchez Recarte said. "In the same way, brewers should mind their own business and focus on their own responsibilities." */
"test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-35" = "桑切斯·雷卡特说：“估算啤酒行业应该设定这样或那样的目标，不是我的职责，因为这取决于他们自身行业的内在特征。同样，啤酒商应该管好自己的事，专注于自己的责任。”";
/* cliff:source: Brewers of Europe shared with Euronews a brief legal analysis it sent to the European Commission last year, where it argues that wine and beer are competing products that are "at least partially, substitutable with each other," and which argued that rules favouring one over the other would distort the market. */
"test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-36" = "“欧洲啤酒酿造商”向欧洲新闻台分享了一份去年发给欧盟委员会的简要法律分析。该分析认为，葡萄酒和啤酒是竞争性产品，“至少在一定程度上可以相互替代”，并称偏向其中一方的规则会扭曲市场。";
/* cliff:source: Simon Spillane, the lobby group's head of operations, said brewers were "already leading the way" in packaging sustainability, citing the example of beer kegs being reused around 165 times before being crushed and recycled after 30 years. They support reuse recycling systems already in place in many countries, he said. */
"test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-37" = "该游说团体的运营主管西蒙·斯皮兰说，啤酒酿造商在包装可持续性方面“已经走在前列”，并以啤酒桶为例：它们可重复使用约165次，30年后才被压碎回收。他说，他们支持许多国家已经实行的再利用回收系统。";
/* cliff:source: "We therefore advocate for an ambitious PPWR but need a level playing field in packaging legislation where beer and other alcoholic beverages play by the same rules, with each sector contributing fairly to reaching the targets and supporting collection systems," Spillane told. "Any other approach puts the brewers at a competitive disadvantage." */
"test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-38" = "斯皮兰说：“因此，我们主张制定一项雄心勃勃的PPWR，但包装立法需要公平的竞争环境，让啤酒和其他酒精饮料遵守同样的规则，各行业都为达成目标和支持回收系统作出公平贡献。任何其他做法都会使啤酒酿造商处于竞争劣势。”";
/* cliff:source: The Biden Administration Is Letting Corporate Criminals Off the Hook */
"test-en-news-newsrepublic-com-6817-39" = "拜登政府正让企业犯罪分子逍遥法外";
/* cliff:source: Tim Whitehouse, a former EPA enforcement attorney and the executive director of Public Employees for Environmental Responsibility, praised the Biden administration's recent improvements on enforcement while acknowledging the strong headwinds such efforts face. "It takes years of sustained funding and political support to build a good enforcement program," he told me. "The instability in Congress is not only demoralizing to EPA staff but undermines their ability to think strategically over the long term." */
"test-en-news-newsrepublic-com-6817-40" = "前美国环保署执法律师、Public Employees for Environmental Responsibility执行主任蒂姆·怀特豪斯称赞拜登政府近期在执法方面的改进，同时承认此类努力面临强劲逆风。他告诉我：“建立一套良好的执法计划需要多年持续的资金和政治支持。国会的不稳定不仅让环保署员工士气低落，也削弱了他们进行长期战略思考的能力。”";
/* cliff:source: The problems at the EPA are distinct but not unrelated to those at the Department of Justice, which handles environmental crimes via its Environment and Natural Resources Division, or ENRD. Prior to joining the EPA, Uhlmann - the EPA assistant secretary for enforcement - had served as the longtime head of that division's Environmental Crimes Section, from 1990 through 2007. The EPA sends its most serious civil and criminal cases to ENRD, which - as a relatively underfunded office - often relies on other agencies in helping to choose which fights to take on. In fiscal year 2022, the EPA deferred fewer cases to DOJ (88) than at any point since 2000 and concluded fewer civil judicial cases than it had since that time, as well. As the Environmental Integrity Project notes, even Trump's EPA concluded 94 civil cases and deferred 106 cases per year to the DOJ per year, on average. */
"test-en-news-newsrepublic-com-6817-41" = "美国环保署的问题与司法部的问题虽有区别，但并非毫不相关。司法部通过其环境与自然资源司（ENRD）处理环境犯罪。在加入环保署之前，乌尔曼——环保署负责执法的助理部长——曾长期担任该司环境犯罪科负责人，任期从1990年到2007年。环保署将其最严重的民事和刑事案件移送ENRD，而ENRD作为一个资金相对不足的办公室，常常依赖其他机构帮助决定承接哪些案件。2022财年，环保署向司法部移送的案件（88件）比2000年以来任何时点都少，审结的民事司法案件数量也是自那时以来最少。正如环境完整性项目所指出的，即便是特朗普时期的环保署，平均每年也审结94件民事案件，并向司法部移送106件案件。";
/* cliff:source: The Department of Justice's overall approach to corporate crimes has come under intense scrutiny from advocates. While watchdogs have lauded some steps the department has taken during Merrick Garland's tenure as attorney general - like finally establishing a database on corporate crime - Biden's DOJ has also leaned heavily on leniency agreements that allow companies to defer or avoid prosecution, and encouraged companies to scapegoat individual employees so as to avoid a broader charge. Kenneth Polite Jr., former assistant attorney general for DOJ's Criminal Division, revised the division's corporate enforcement policy so as to limit prosecutions. */
"test-en-news-newsrepublic-com-6817-42" = "司法部处理企业犯罪的总体方针受到了倡导者的严格审视。虽然监督机构称赞了该部在梅里克·加兰担任司法部长期间采取的一些举措——比如终于建立了企业犯罪数据库——但拜登政府的司法部也严重依赖宽大协议，允许企业推迟或避免起诉，并鼓励企业把个别员工当替罪羊，以避免更广泛的指控。司法部刑事司前助理部长小肯尼斯·波利特修订了该司的企业执法政策，以限制起诉。";