header:
  namespace: clarion
  clan: wmt24pp
  source-language: en-US
  target-language: zh-CN
groups:
- path: news
  entries:
  - id: test-en-news-beverly-press-3585-1
    source: Siso's depictions of land, water center new gallery exhibition
    target: 西索笔下的土地与水，成为新画廊展览的核心
  - id: test-en-news-beverly-press-3585-2
    source: '"People Swimming in the Swimming Pool" from 2022 is one Vicente Siso
      artwork that will display at Tierra del Sol Gallery beginning Jan. 13. (photo
      courtesy of Vicente Siso)'
    target: 创作于 2022 年的《在泳池中游泳的人们》是维森特·西索（Vicente Siso）的作品之一，将于 1 月 13 日起在 Tierra del Sol 画廊展出。（照片由维森特·西索提供）
  - id: test-en-news-beverly-press-3585-3
    source: 'Tierra del Sol is pleased to present "Vicente Siso: Memories of the Land
      and Water" at the new gallery location in West Hollywood. Siso has been an artist
      in the Studio Arts Program since 2012, this marks his debut solo exhibition.
      Siso was born 1962 in Madrid and raised between Venezuela, Trinidad and Miami;
      he moved with his family to Southern California in his early 20s.'
    target: Tierra del Sol 画廊欣然呈献“维森特·西索：土地与水的记忆”，展出于西好莱坞的新馆址。西索自 2012 年起便是工作室艺术项目（Studio Arts Program）的艺术家，此次是他的首次个人展览。西索 1962 年生于马德里，在委内瑞拉、特立尼达和迈阿密之间长大；二十岁出头时随家人移居南加州。
  - id: test-en-news-beverly-press-3585-4
    source: 'Masterfully working across subject matter, Siso has generated a prolific
      series of landscapes, portraits, and still-life works rendered in either acrylic,
      pastel, pencil or watercolor. Drawing from family portraits, his own reference
      photographs, and recollection, his colorful compositions demonstrate his range
      of interests and skill across media. Siso''s tropical landscapes and seascapes
      reflect the geographies of his past, employing rich patterns and incorporating
      people to make meaningful connections between culture, memory and the environment.
      Siso titles his artworks in a mix of Spanish and English, signifying the celebrated
      and integral complexities of his life in Los Angeles County. "Vicente Siso:
      Memories of the Land and Water" opens on Saturday, Jan. 13, with a reception
      from 6-8 p.m. The exhibition is on view through Sunday, March 3.'
    target: 西索在各类题材间挥洒自如，创作了大量风景、肖像与静物作品，以丙烯、粉彩、铅笔或水彩绘就。他取材于家庭肖像、自拍的参考照片与记忆，色彩斑斓的构图展现出他广泛的兴趣和跨媒介的技艺。西索笔下的热带风景与海景映照着他过往生活的地域，运用丰富的图案并融入人物，在文化、记忆与环境之间建立起有意义的联结。西索以西班牙语和英语混用的方式为作品命名，象征着他在洛杉矶县生活中那些值得称道而又不可或缺的复杂况味。《维森特·西索：土地与水的记忆》于 1 月 13 日星期六开幕，当晚 6 点至 8 点举行招待会。展览持续至 3 月 3 日星期日。
  - id: test-en-news-beverly-press-3585-5
    source: The Tierra del Sol Gallery is located at 7414 Santa Monica Blvd. For information,
      visit tierradelsolgallery.org.
    target: Tierra del Sol 画廊位于圣莫尼卡大道 7414 号。欲了解详情，请访问 tierradelsolgallery.org。
  - id: test-en-news-brisbanetimes-com-au-228963-6
    source: Adapt the old, accommodate the new to solve issue
    target: 改造旧有、容纳新需，方能破解难题
  - id: test-en-news-brisbanetimes-com-au-228963-7
    source: At the precinct level, we just need to look at the Sydney CBD as an example
      of an area which has grown from its pre-settlement landscape into a two-storey
      city, from a maximum height of 150 feet to the soaring towers of today. At a
      much scaled-down level, the same can occur across Sydney's town centres located
      around transport nodes. Inner suburbs must also evolve, with a swing to more
      affordable apartment living at heights below the tree tops on key sites. Of
      course, the new growth in housing needs to be well-designed and trees, landscaping
      and parks need to be included along with other essential infrastructure.
    target: 在片区层面，我们只需看看悉尼中央商务区：这片区域从殖民定居前的自然地貌，演变为楼层限高 150 英尺的两层城市，再到如今高耸入云的塔楼。在规模小得多的层面上，悉尼围绕交通节点分布的各个城镇中心也可以发生同样的变化。内城郊区同样必须演进，在关键地块上转向树冠高度以下、更为可负担的公寓住宅。当然，新增住房必须设计精良，并纳入树木、景观和公园，以及其他必不可少的基础设施。
  - id: test-en-news-brisbanetimes-com-au-228963-8
    source: Our planning system also needs to adapt so that planners in suburban councils,
      who seem to be less supportive of change, are not the only determinants of the
      future shape of their suburbs. A way forward could be to have an independent
      decision-making body that championed quality design as long as it fitted below
      the tree tops and incorporated family living, large balconies, common gardens
      and presented a friendly appearance. This could be a role for the current NSW
      government architect working within a carefully crafted complying code.
    target: 我们的规划体系也需要调整，使郊区议会中那些似乎不太支持变革的规划人员，不再是决定郊区未来面貌的唯一因素。一种可行的路径是设立独立的决策机构，只要设计方案低于树冠高度，包含家庭居住空间、大阳台、公共花园，并呈现出友善的外观，就大力支持高品质设计。这或许可以由现任新南威尔士州政府建筑师在精心拟定的合规准则框架内来承担。
  - id: test-en-news-brisbanetimes-com-au-228963-9
    source: Over the past decade, our lives have changed through technology, with
      many working from home, and Sydney has gained an impressive network of metro
      and light rail systems. Our ability to purchase online has changed the way we
      shop, and friends and family seem closer because of smartphone communication.
      All of these adaptations from one system to another can also occur in our built
      environment through a planning focus on adaptive reuse rather than preferencing
      heritage preservation.
    target: 过去十年间，科技改变了我们的生活，许多人得以居家办公，悉尼也建起了令人瞩目的地铁与轻轨网络。在线购物改变了我们的消费方式，智能手机的沟通让亲友之间显得更加亲近。所有这些从一个体系到另一个体系的转变，同样可以发生在我们的人居环境中——只要规划工作聚焦于适应性再利用，而不是一味偏向遗产保护。
  - id: test-en-news-brisbanetimes-com-au-228963-10
    source: Chris Johnson is a former NSW government architect (1995-2005) and executive
      director, NSW Department of Planning (2005-2009). He was CEO of Urban Taskforce
      Australia between 2011 and 2019.
    target: 克里斯·约翰逊（Chris Johnson）曾任新南威尔士州政府建筑师（1995—2005 年），并任新南威尔士州规划部执行主任（2005—2009 年）。2011 年至 2019 年间，他担任澳大利亚城市特别工作组（Urban Taskforce Australia）首席执行官。
  - id: test-en-news-csmonitor-com-7750-11
    source: A final push for female equality
    target: 为女性平等发起最后冲刺
  - id: test-en-news-csmonitor-com-7750-12
    source: Last year, the World Economic Forum forecast that it would take five generations
      to achieve gender equality in every nation. Now the World Bank wants to rapidly
      accelerate that time frame.
    target: 去年，世界经济论坛预测，要在每个国家实现性别平等，还需五代人的时间。如今，世界银行希望大幅加快这一时间表。
  - id: test-en-news-csmonitor-com-7750-13
    source: The international financial institution is poised to launch a strategy
      aimed at significantly advancing the rights and economic opportunities for girls
      and women by 2030. The plan focuses on improving inclusivity and resilience
      through access to finance, technological innovation, and changes in public policy
      and law.
    target: 这家国际金融机构即将推出一项战略，旨在到 2030 年显著提升女童和妇女的权利与经济机会。该计划着眼于通过融资渠道、技术创新以及公共政策与法律的变革，增进包容性与韧性。
  - id: test-en-news-csmonitor-com-7750-14
    source: '"Recent research demonstrates that both social norms and mindsets can
      change, for example, that engaging men and boys can foster their support and
      buy-in for gender equality," a consultative draft of the plan states. "Positive
      gender outcomes can be accelerated and scaled with a better understanding of
      ... how social norms and mindsets shape everyday expectations, priorities, and
      practices."'
    target: “近期研究表明，社会规范和心态都可以改变，例如，让男性和男孩参与其中，能够争取到他们对性别平等的支持与认同，”该计划的征求意见稿写道。“只要更好地理解……社会规范与心态如何塑造日常的期望、优先事项和做法，积极的性别平等成果就能加快实现并扩大规模。”
  - id: test-en-news-csmonitor-com-7750-15
    source: Shifts in thought are harder to quantify than bank loans for rural women
      or school enrollment for girls. Yet there is plenty of evidence that female
      agency can move mountains. In Iran, for example, women have led the greatest
      threat to the Islamic government in 40 years simply by refusing to comply with
      laws that force them to cover their hair. In some of the 130 countries with
      minimum quotas for female representation in government, such as India, male
      resistance to female voting and political activism has eased.
    target: 与向农村妇女发放银行贷款或让女童入学相比，思想观念的转变更难量化。但大量证据表明，女性的自主能动性足以移山填海。例如在伊朗，女性仅仅通过拒绝遵守强制遮盖头发的法律，就构成了 40 年来对伊斯兰政府最大的威胁。在包括印度在内的一些设有女性参政最低配额的国家（共 130 个）中，男性对女性投票和政治活动的抵制已经有所缓和。
  - id: test-en-news-csmonitor-com-7750-16
    source: In some rural African communities, civil society organizations are replacing
      a harmful rite of passage with health education. One such program helped Kamanda
      Timayio, leader of the Masai village of Maparasha, Kenya, change his mind about
      female genital mutilation. He told Le Monde that he had "emerged from ignorance"
      and would abandon the practice.
    target: 在非洲一些农村社区，民间社会组织正以健康教育取代一种有害的成年仪式。其中一个项目促使肯尼亚马帕拉沙村（Maparasha）的马赛族村长卡曼达·蒂马伊奥（Kamanda Timayio）改变了对女性生殖器切割的看法。他告诉《世界报》，自己已经“走出无知”，并将摒弃这一陋习。
  - id: test-en-news-csmonitor-com-7750-17
    source: The World Bank cites other examples. From 1970 to 2022, Bangladesh quadrupled
      female literacy rates and doubled female participation in the labor force. Its
      gross domestic product more than tripled. The change gathered its own momentum.
      Recruiting salaried women as teachers and health workers from within their own
      communities boosted trust "and made women's mobility and work more socially
      acceptable."
    target: 世界银行还举出了其他例子。1970 年至 2022 年，孟加拉国女性识字率增长至原来的四倍，女性劳动参与率翻了一番，国内生产总值增长了两倍多。变革自有其势头。从女性所在社区中聘用她们担任有薪教师和卫生工作者，增强了信任，“也让女性的出行和工作在社会上更被接受”。
  - id: test-en-news-csmonitor-com-7750-18
    source: The bank's plan would target norms and institutions that may still require
      generational shifts. It has taken Rwanda more than two decades to establish
      itself as a model for land reforms that boost economic empowerment for women."No
      one benefits if women are held back," Rwanda President Paul Kagame said, arguing
      for land reform in 2015. "We have to change mindsets, not just the laws."
    target: 世行的计划将针对那些或许仍需代际更替才能改变的规范与制度。卢旺达用了二十多年，才把自己打造为通过土地改革提升女性经济赋权的典范。“如果女性受到束缚，没有人能从中受益，”卢旺达总统保罗·卡加梅在 2015 年为土地改革辩护时说道。“我们必须改变心态，而不只是法律。”
  - id: test-en-news-csmonitor-com-7750-19
    source: The World Bank hopes to spread that message.
    target: 世界银行希望把这一信息传播开来。
  - id: test-en-news-economist-14223-20
    source: German farmers and train drivers are scaring Germany's bosses
    target: 德国农民和火车司机让德国的老板们心惊胆战
  - id: test-en-news-economist-14223-21
    source: In Germany, where workers and bosses run many companies jointly, a big
      strike is unusual. A wave of big strikes is almost unheard of. Right now the
      country of "co-determination" is simultaneously facing an eight-day "action
      week" by irate farmers, who blocked roads with tractors, a three-day strike
      of railway workers and, to top it off, a looming strike of doctors, who already
      closed surgeries between Christmas and New Year's Day. This Mistgabelmop (pitchfork
      mob), as some have taken to calling it, will test Germany's harmonious labour
      relations in the year to come.
    target: 在德国，工人和雇主共同管理着许多企业，因此大规模罢工并不常见，而一波接一波的大规模罢工更是几乎闻所未闻。眼下，这个以“共同决定制”著称的国家同时面临：愤怒的农民用拖拉机封路，举行为期八天的“行动周”；铁路工人罢工三天；更有甚者，医生也即将停工——他们在圣诞节到元旦期间就已经停诊。有人把这场运动称作“粪叉暴民”（Mistgabelmop），它将在新的一年考验德国和谐的劳资关系。
  - id: test-en-news-economist-14223-22
    source: The protests were ostensibly set off by the government's decision to end
      subsidies for diesel fuel used in agriculture and to cut an exemption from car
      tax for farm vehicles. These measures pushed farmers over the edge. It also
      mobilised other angry workers, already straining under the pressure of inflation,
      recession and the government's self-imposed austerity. On January 9th drivers
      of freight and passenger trains at Deutsche Bahn, the national railway, began
      a strike over working hours and pay.
    target: 表面上看，抗议是由政府决定取消农业用柴油补贴、并削减农用车辆免征机动车税的政策引发的。这些措施把农民逼到了忍无可忍的地步，也动员起了其他愤怒的劳动者——他们早已在通货膨胀、经济衰退和政府自我施加的紧缩政策重压下不堪重负。1 月 9 日，国营铁路德国铁路公司（Deutsche Bahn）的货运和客运列车司机就工作时间和薪酬问题开始罢工。
  - id: test-en-news-economist-14223-23
    source: In an effort to defuse the tension with the farmers, the government agreed
      to a gradual removal of the diesel subsidy over three years and to keeping the
      exemption from the car tax. The farmers pooh-poohed the concessions as insufficient.
      On January 4th an aggressive group of them prevented Robert Habeck, the economy
      minister, from disembarking from a ferry on his return from a family holiday.
      If the train drivers are similarly unimpressed, that could prove expensive for
      German business, reckons IW Köln, a think-tank. The rail strike could cost businesses
      €100m ($110m) a day if it forced them to interrupt production. The car, chemical
      and steel industries, Germany's biggest, are especially reliant on rail transport.
    target: 为缓和与农民的紧张关系，政府同意在三年内逐步取消柴油补贴，并保留机动车税的豁免。农民对这些让步嗤之以鼻，认为远远不够。1 月 4 日，一群情绪激烈的农民阻止经济部长罗伯特·哈贝克（Robert Habeck）从家庭度假归来的渡轮上下船。智库科隆德国经济研究所（IW Köln）认为，如果火车司机同样不买账，德国企业可能付出高昂代价。铁路罢工若迫使企业中断生产，企业每天的损失可能高达 1 亿欧元（1.1 亿美元）。德国规模最大的汽车、化工和钢铁行业尤其依赖铁路运输。
  - id: test-en-news-economist-14223-24
    source: The workers" mood is increasingly angry. "Appeals are circulating with
      fantasies of revolution," warned Mr Habeck. The far-right Alternative for Germany
      party is doing its best to fan the grievances. In Dresden the Free Saxons, another
      far-right group, infiltrated the farmers" protest calling for the "extinction
      of the traffic light" (as the governing coalition of the Social Democrats, Free
      Democrats and Greens is referred to because of their party colours).
    target: 劳动者的情绪日益愤怒。哈贝克警告说：“流传的呼吁中充斥着革命的幻想。”极右翼政党德国选择党（Alternative for Germany）正竭力煽动不满情绪。在德累斯顿，另一个极右翼团体“自由萨克森人”（Free Saxons）混入了农民的抗议活动，呼吁“让红绿灯熄灭”（由社民党、自由民主党和绿党组成的执政联盟，因其党旗颜色而被称作“红绿灯”）。
  - id: test-en-news-economist-14223-25
    source: Thomas Puls of IW Köln fears that the strikes will harm the image of Germany
      as a place for business. Local bosses are already fretting about a German version
      of the gilets jaunes protests in France in 2018, which culminated in yellow-jacketed
      demonstrators torching cars on the Champs-Elysées and the police stepping in
      with tear gas. Jochen Kopelke, head of Germany's police union, warned in an
      interview with Tagesspiegel, a daily, that the farmers were probably "just the
      start of an enormous wave of protest this year." Germany was the only big economy
      to shrink in 2023, and the year ended on an especially sour note, with an unexpected
      drop in business confidence in December. This year is shaping up to be even
      tougher.
    target: 科隆德国经济研究所的托马斯·普尔斯（Thomas Puls）担心，这些罢工将损害德国作为营商之地的形象。当地的企业老板们已经在忧虑德国会重演 2018 年法国“黄马甲”抗议的一幕——那场抗议最终演变成身穿黄色背心的示威者在香榭丽舍大街焚烧汽车，警方动用催泪瓦斯介入。德国警察工会主席约亨·科佩尔克（Jochen Kopelke）在接受《每日镜报》（Tagesspiegel）采访时警告说，农民的抗议很可能“只是今年这场巨大抗议浪潮的开端”。德国是 2023 年唯一出现经济萎缩的大型经济体，而这一年以格外糟糕的基调收尾：12 月企业信心出人意料地下滑。今年的形势看来会更加严峻。
  - id: test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-26
    source: Brewers froth over winemakers" exemption from anti-waste rules
    target: 葡萄酒商获豁免反浪费新规，啤酒商“泛起泡沫”
  - id: test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-27
    source: As the EU debates rules to limit packaging waste, beer producers argue
      they are being unfairly discriminated against with exemptions for winemakers
      from reuse targets and deposit-return schemes, but one of Europe's wine industry
      association chiefs says brewers should "mind their own business."
    target: 在欧盟就限制包装废弃物的规则展开辩论之际，啤酒生产商认为，葡萄酒商在再利用目标和押金返还制度上获得豁免，对他们构成了不公平的歧视；但欧洲葡萄酒行业协会的一位负责人表示，啤酒商应该“管好自己的事”。
  - id: test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-28
    source: European brewers have warned that exempting wine and not beer from deposit
      return schemes and reuse targets is unfair and potentially illegal, as lawmakers
      enter final talks over a new law designed to turn a surging tide of packaging
      waste across the EU.
    target: 欧洲啤酒商警告说，在押金返还制度和再利用目标上只豁免葡萄酒而不豁免啤酒，既不公平，也可能不合法。此时，立法者正就一项新法律进入最后阶段的谈判，该法旨在扭转欧盟各地不断高涨的包装废弃物浪潮。
  - id: test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-29
    source: Environment ministers agreed an EU Council negotiating mandate on the proposed
      Packaging and Packaging Waste Regulation (PPWR) before Christmas, paving the
      way for imminent political talks with the European Parliament, which are already
      underway at the technical level.
    target: 圣诞节前，各国环境部长就拟议的《包装及包装废弃物法规》（PPWR）达成了欧盟理事会的谈判授权，为即将与欧洲议会展开的政治谈判铺平道路——相关技术层面的讨论已经启动。
  - id: test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-30
    source: '"Our position is clear," the trade association Brewers of Europe wrote
      to MEPs and government negotiators (10 January). "If targets and mandatory requirements
      in the PPWR apply to beer then there is a legal obligation that they apply to
      all alcoholic beverage categories."'
    target: “我们的立场很明确，”行业协会“欧洲啤酒商联盟”（Brewers of Europe）在致欧洲议会议员和政府谈判代表（1 月 10 日）的信中写道。“如果《包装及包装废弃物法规》中的目标和强制性要求适用于啤酒，那么在法律上就有义务让它们同样适用于所有酒精饮料类别。”
  - id: test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-31
    source: The 18 December ministerial summit yielded a carve out for winemakers
      from the requirement that, by the end of the decade, 10% of products must be
      supplied in reusable containers within a system for reuse or refill, rising
      to 40% in 2040. The exemption would also apply to the requirement, likewise
      supported by the European Parliament, that wine should be exempt from deposit-return
      schemes that should be put in place by 2029 under the proposal.
    target: 12 月 18 日的部长级峰会为葡萄酒商开了一个口子，使其免受这项要求的约束：到本十年末，须有 10% 的产品通过再利用或再填充体系以可重复使用的容器供应，到 2040 年这一比例将升至 40%。该豁免还将适用于另一项同样得到欧洲议会支持的要求，即葡萄酒应免于适用押金返还制度——根据该提案，押金返还制度应于 2029 年前落实到位。
  - id: test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-32
    source: Both the Czech and Belgian ministers immediately expressed reservations
      at the 18 December summit about the unequal treatment for brewers, but acquiesced.
      Belgium, which now chairs the rotating EU Council presidency and is therefore
      in principle neutral in terms of inter-governmental negotiations, hopes to clinch
      a deal with the parliament by early March.
    target: 在 12 月 18 日的峰会上，捷克和比利时两国的部长立即就对啤酒商的不平等待遇表达了保留意见，但最终还是默许了。比利时目前担任欧盟理事会轮值主席国，因此原则上在政府间谈判中保持中立，它希望能在 3 月初与欧洲议会达成协议。
  - id: test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-33
    source: Ignacio Sánchez Recarte, secretary general of the Comité Européen des
      Entreprises Vins trade association representing some 7,000 wine producers across
      Europe, is dismissive of the concerns of the beer makers. He told Euronews that
      a market dominated by multinational brewing conglomerates bears no comparison
      with one comprised almost entirely of small, domestic producers.
    target: 代表欧洲约 7000 家葡萄酒生产商的行业协会——欧洲葡萄酒企业委员会（Comité Européen des Entreprises Vins）秘书长伊格纳西奥·桑切斯·雷卡特（Ignacio Sánchez Recarte）对啤酒商的担忧不以为然。他告诉欧洲新闻台（Euronews），一个由跨国酿酒集团主导的市场，与一个几乎完全由本国小型生产商构成的市场根本不可同日而语。
  - id: test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-34
    source: More than 99% of the domestic wine sector is made up of micro- to medium-sized
      companies, Sánchez Recarte said, questioning the solidity of legal arguments
      made by brewers and asserting that his organisation had focused on presenting
      policy makers with information "relevant and appropriate" to its own industry.
    target: 桑切斯·雷卡特表示，欧洲本土葡萄酒行业 99% 以上由微型到中型企业构成。他质疑啤酒商所提法律论据是否站得住脚，并称他的组织一直专注于向政策制定者提供“与其自身行业相关且恰当”的信息。
  - id: test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-35
    source: '"It is not my role to estimate if the beer sector should have this or
      that target, as it would depend on the intrinsic characteristics of their own
      sector," Sánchez Recarte said. "In the same way, brewers should mind their own
      business and focus on their own responsibilities."'
    target: “评估啤酒行业是否应该设定这样或那样的目标，并不是我的职责，因为这取决于他们自身行业的内在特征，”桑切斯·雷卡特说。“同样，啤酒商也应该管好自己的事，专注于自己的责任。”
  - id: test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-36
    source: Brewers of Europe shared with Euronews a brief legal analysis it sent
      to the European Commission last year, where it argues that wine and beer are
      competing products that are "at least partially, substitutable with each other,"
      and which argued that rules favouring one over the other would distort the market.
    target: 欧洲啤酒商联盟与欧洲新闻台分享了一份去年提交给欧盟委员会的简要法律分析，其中主张葡萄酒和啤酒是相互竞争的产品，“至少在一定程度上可以相互替代”，并认为偏袒其中一方的规则会扭曲市场。
  - id: test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-37
    source: Simon Spillane, the lobby group's head of operations, said brewers were
      "already leading the way" in packaging sustainability, citing the example of
      beer kegs being reused around 165 times before being crushed and recycled after
      30 years. They support reuse recycling systems already in place in many countries,
      he said.
    target: 该游说团体的运营主管西蒙·斯皮兰（Simon Spillane）表示，啤酒商在包装可持续性方面“已经走在前列”，并以啤酒桶为例：一只啤酒桶可重复使用约 165 次，30 年后才会被压碎回收。他说，他们支持许多国家已经建立的再利用回收体系。
  - id: test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-38
    source: '"We therefore advocate for an ambitious PPWR but need a level playing
      field in packaging legislation where beer and other alcoholic beverages play
      by the same rules, with each sector contributing fairly to reaching the targets
      and supporting collection systems," Spillane told. "Any other approach puts
      the brewers at a competitive disadvantage."'
    target: “因此，我们主张出台一部有雄心的《包装及包装废弃物法规》，但包装立法需要营造公平的竞争环境，让啤酒和其他酒精饮料遵循同样的规则，各行业都为达成目标和支撑回收体系作出公平的贡献，”斯皮兰表示。“任何其他做法都会让啤酒商处于竞争劣势。”
  - id: test-en-news-newsrepublic-com-6817-39
    source: The Biden Administration Is Letting Corporate Criminals Off the Hook
    target: 拜登政府正对企业犯罪分子网开一面
  - id: test-en-news-newsrepublic-com-6817-40
    source: Tim Whitehouse, a former EPA enforcement attorney and the executive director
      of Public Employees for Environmental Responsibility, praised the Biden administration's
      recent improvements on enforcement while acknowledging the strong headwinds such
      efforts face. "It takes years of sustained funding and political support to
      build a good enforcement program," he told me. "The instability in Congress
      is not only demoralizing to EPA staff but undermines their ability to think
      strategically over the long term."
    target: 蒂姆·怀特豪斯（Tim Whitehouse）曾任美国环保署（EPA）执法律师，现任“环境保护责任公职人员组织”（Public Employees for Environmental Responsibility）执行主任。他称赞拜登政府近期在执法方面的改进，同时也承认这类努力面临强劲阻力。“建立一套良好的执法体系，需要多年持续的资金投入和政治支持，”他告诉我。“国会的不稳定不仅让环保署员工士气低落，也削弱了他们进行长期战略思考的能力。”
  - id: test-en-news-newsrepublic-com-6817-41
    source: The problems at the EPA are distinct but not unrelated to those at the
      Department of Justice, which handles environmental crimes via its Environment
      and Natural Resources Division, or ENRD. Prior to joining the EPA, Uhlmann -
      the EPA assistant secretary for enforcement - had served as the longtime head
      of that division's Environmental Crimes Section, from 1990 through 2007. The
      EPA sends its most serious civil and criminal cases to ENRD, which - as a relatively
      underfunded office - often relies on other agencies in helping to choose which
      fights to take on. In fiscal year 2022, the EPA deferred fewer cases to DOJ
      (88) than at any point since 2000 and concluded fewer civil judicial cases than
      it had since that time, as well. As the Environmental Integrity Project notes,
      even Trump's EPA concluded 94 civil cases and deferred 106 cases per year to
      the DOJ per year, on average.
    target: 环保署的问题与司法部的问题各有不同，但并非毫不相干。司法部通过其环境与自然资源司（ENRD）处理环境犯罪。在加入环保署之前，乌尔曼（Uhlmann）——现任环保署负责执法的助理部长——曾长期担任该司环境犯罪科科长，任期从 1990 年到 2007 年。环保署将其最严重的民事和刑事案件移交给环境与自然资源司，而这个经费相对不足的部门常常要依赖其他机构来帮助决定接手哪些案件。2022 财年，环保署移交司法部的案件数量（88 件）为 2000 年以来最少，同期审结的民事司法案件数量也是 2000 年以来最少的。正如“环境诚信项目”（Environmental Integrity Project）所指出的，即便是特朗普时期的环保署，平均每年也审结 94 件民事案件、向司法部移交 106 件案件。
  - id: test-en-news-newsrepublic-com-6817-42
    source: The Department of Justice's overall approach to corporate crimes has come
      under intense scrutiny from advocates. While watchdogs have lauded some steps
      the department has taken during Merrick Garland's tenure as attorney general
      - like finally establishing a database on corporate crime - Biden's DOJ has
      also leaned heavily on leniency agreements that allow companies to defer or
      avoid prosecution, and encouraged companies to scapegoat individual employees
      so as to avoid a broader charge. Kenneth Polite Jr., former assistant attorney
      general for DOJ's Criminal Division, revised the division's corporate enforcement
      policy so as to limit prosecutions.
    target: 司法部处理企业犯罪的总体方式受到倡导者的密切关注与严厉审视。尽管监督机构称赞了该部在梅里克·加兰（Merrick Garland）担任司法部长期间采取的一些举措——比如终于建立了企业犯罪数据库——但拜登治下的司法部也严重依赖宽大处理协议，允许企业延期起诉或免于起诉，并鼓励企业把个别员工作为替罪羊，以规避更广泛的指控。司法部刑事司前助理部长小肯尼斯·波莱特（Kenneth Polite Jr.）修订了该司的企业执法政策，以限制起诉。