header:
  namespace: clarion
  clan: wmt24pp
  source-language: en-US
  target-language: zh-CN
groups:
- path: news
  entries:
  - id: test-en-news-beverly-press-3585-1
    source: Siso's depictions of land, water center new gallery exhibition
    target: "Siso 笔下的土地与水域成为新画廊展览焦点"
  - id: test-en-news-beverly-press-3585-2
    source: '"People Swimming in the Swimming Pool" from 2022 is one Vicente Siso
      artwork that will display at Tierra del Sol Gallery beginning Jan. 13. (photo
      courtesy of Vicente Siso)'
    target: "2022年的《人们在泳池中游泳》是 Vicente Siso 的一件作品，将于1月13日起在 Tierra del Sol 画廊展出。（照片由 Vicente Siso 提供）"
  - id: test-en-news-beverly-press-3585-3
    source: 'Tierra del Sol is pleased to present "Vicente Siso: Memories of the Land
      and Water" at the new gallery location in West Hollywood. Siso has been an artist
      in the Studio Arts Program since 2012, this marks his debut solo exhibition.
      Siso was born 1962 in Madrid and raised between Venezuela, Trinidad and Miami;
      he moved with his family to Southern California in his early 20s.'
    target: "Tierra del Sol 欣然呈献“Vicente Siso：土地与水的记忆”，地点位于西好莱坞的新画廊空间。Siso 自2012年起一直是 Studio Arts Program 的艺术家，此次是他的首次个展。Siso 1962 年出生于马德里，在委内瑞拉、特立尼达和迈阿密之间长大；二十岁出头时随家人搬到南加州。"
  - id: test-en-news-beverly-press-3585-4
    source: 'Masterfully working across subject matter, Siso has generated a prolific
      series of landscapes, portraits, and still-life works rendered in either acrylic,
      pastel, pencil or watercolor. Drawing from family portraits, his own reference
      photographs, and recollection, his colorful compositions demonstrate his range
      of interests and skill across media. Siso''s tropical landscapes and seascapes
      reflect the geographies of his past, employing rich patterns and incorporating
      people to make meaningful connections between culture, memory and the environment.
      Siso titles his artworks in a mix of Spanish and English, signifying the celebrated
      and integral complexities of his life in Los Angeles County. "Vicente Siso:
      Memories of the Land and Water" opens on Saturday, Jan. 13, with a reception
      from 6-8 p.m. The exhibition is on view through Sunday, March 3.'
    target: "Siso 娴熟地驾驭各类主题，创作了大量风景、肖像和静物作品，使用丙烯、粉彩、铅笔或水彩绘制。他从家庭肖像、自己的参考照片和记忆中汲取灵感，色彩丰富的构图展现了他广泛的兴趣和跨媒介的技艺。Siso 的热带风景和海景反映了他过去生活的地理环境，运用丰富的图案并融入人物，在文化、记忆与环境之间建立有意义的联系。Siso 用西班牙语和英语混合命名作品，彰显他在洛杉矶县生活中备受赞誉且不可或缺的复杂性。“Vicente Siso：土地与水的记忆”将于1月13日星期六开幕，下午6点至8点举行招待会。展览将持续至3月3日星期日。"
  - id: test-en-news-beverly-press-3585-5
    source: The Tierra del Sol Gallery is located at 7414 Santa Monica Blvd. For information,
      visit tierradelsolgallery.org.
    target: "Tierra del Sol 画廊位于 Santa Monica 大道 7414 号。欲了解更多信息，请访问 tierradelsolgallery.org。"
  - id: test-en-news-brisbanetimes-com-au-228963-6
    source: Adapt the old, accommodate the new to solve issue
    target: "改造旧建筑，容纳新需求，以解决问题"
  - id: test-en-news-brisbanetimes-com-au-228963-7
    source: At the precinct level, we just need to look at the Sydney CBD as an example
      of an area which has grown from its pre-settlement landscape into a two-storey
      city, from a maximum height of 150 feet to the soaring towers of today. At a
      much scaled-down level, the same can occur across Sydney's town centres located
      around transport nodes. Inner suburbs must also evolve, with a swing to more
      affordable apartment living at heights below the tree tops on key sites. Of
      course, the new growth in housing needs to be well-designed and trees, landscaping
      and parks need to be included along with other essential infrastructure.
    target: "在片区层面，我们只需看看悉尼中央商务区，它就是一个例子：从殖民前的地貌发展为两层楼高的城市，从最高150英尺到今天高耸的塔楼。在更小尺度上，悉尼围绕交通节点分布的城镇中心也可以发生同样的变化。内城区也必须演变，在关键地块转向树冠高度以下的更可负担的公寓生活。当然，新的住房增长需要精心设计，并且树木、景观和公园需要与其他必要基础设施一并纳入。"
  - id: test-en-news-brisbanetimes-com-au-228963-8
    source: Our planning system also needs to adapt so that planners in suburban councils,
      who seem to be less supportive of change, are not the only determinants of the
      future shape of their suburbs. A way forward could be to have an independent
      decision-making body that championed quality design as long as it fitted below
      the tree tops and incorporated family living, large balconies, common gardens
      and presented a friendly appearance. This could be a role for the current NSW
      government architect working within a carefully crafted complying code.
    target: "我们的规划体系也需要调整，使郊区议会中似乎不太支持变革的规划者不再是其郊区未来形态的唯一决定者。前进的一种方式可以是设立独立的决策机构，只要设计符合树冠高度以下、包含家庭生活空间、大阳台、公共花园并呈现友好外观，就倡导高质量设计。这可以成为现任新南威尔士州政府建筑师在精心制定的合规规范内发挥的作用。"
  - id: test-en-news-brisbanetimes-com-au-228963-9
    source: Over the past decade, our lives have changed through technology, with
      many working from home, and Sydney has gained an impressive network of metro
      and light rail systems. Our ability to purchase online has changed the way we
      shop, and friends and family seem closer because of smartphone communication.
      All of these adaptations from one system to another can also occur in our built
      environment through a planning focus on adaptive reuse rather than preferencing
      heritage preservation.
    target: "过去十年，技术改变了我们的生活，许多人在家工作，悉尼也拥有了令人印象深刻的 metro 和轻轨网络。在线购物的能力改变了我们的购物方式，智能手机通信让朋友和家人似乎更亲近。所有这些从一个系统到另一个系统的适应，也可以通过规划对适应性再利用的关注，而非优先考虑遗产保护，在我们的建成环境中发生。"
  - id: test-en-news-brisbanetimes-com-au-228963-10
    source: Chris Johnson is a former NSW government architect (1995-2005) and executive
      director, NSW Department of Planning (2005-2009). He was CEO of Urban Taskforce
      Australia between 2011 and 2019.
    target: "Chris Johnson 曾任新南威尔士州政府建筑师（1995-2005）以及新南威尔士州规划部执行主任（2005-2009）。他于2011年至2019年间担任澳大利亚城市特别工作组（Urban Taskforce Australia）首席执行官。"
  - id: test-en-news-csmonitor-com-7750-11
    source: A final push for female equality
    target: "为女性平等做最后冲刺"
  - id: test-en-news-csmonitor-com-7750-12
    source: Last year, the World Economic Forum forecast that it would take five generations
      to achieve gender equality in every nation. Now the World Bank wants to rapidly
      accelerate that time frame.
    target: "去年，世界经济论坛预测，每个国家实现性别平等需要五代人的时间。现在，世界银行希望迅速加快这一时间表。"
  - id: test-en-news-csmonitor-com-7750-13
    source: The international financial institution is poised to launch a strategy
      aimed at significantly advancing the rights and economic opportunities for girls
      and women by 2030. The plan focuses on improving inclusivity and resilience
      through access to finance, technological innovation, and changes in public policy
      and law.
    target: "这家国际金融机构准备推出一项战略，旨在到2030年大幅推进女童和妇女的权利与经济机会。该计划侧重于通过融资渠道、技术创新以及公共政策和法律变革来提高包容性和韧性。"
  - id: test-en-news-csmonitor-com-7750-14
    source: '"Recent research demonstrates that both social norms and mindsets can
      change, for example, that engaging men and boys can foster their support and
      buy-in for gender equality," a consultative draft of the plan states. "Positive
      gender outcomes can be accelerated and scaled with a better understanding of
      ... how social norms and mindsets shape everyday expectations, priorities, and
      practices."'
    target: "“近期研究表明，社会规范和心态都可以改变，例如，让男性和男孩参与可以促进他们对性别平等的支持和认同，”该计划的咨询草案写道。“更好地理解……社会规范和心态如何塑造日常期望、优先事项和实践，可以加快并扩大积极的性别成果。”"
  - id: test-en-news-csmonitor-com-7750-15
    source: Shifts in thought are harder to quantify than bank loans for rural women
      or school enrollment for girls. Yet there is plenty of evidence that female
      agency can move mountains. In Iran, for example, women have led the greatest
      threat to the Islamic government in 40 years simply by refusing to comply with
      laws that force them to cover their hair. In some of the 130 countries with
      minimum quotas for female representation in government, such as India, male
      resistance to female voting and political activism has eased.
    target: "思想转变比向农村妇女提供银行贷款或让女童入学更难量化。然而，大量证据表明，女性的能动性可以移山。例如在伊朗，女性仅仅通过拒绝遵守强制她们遮盖头发的法律，就领导了40年来对伊斯兰政府最大的威胁。在130个对政府中女性代表比例设有最低配额的国家中，如印度，男性对女性投票和政治活动的抵制已经缓和。"
  - id: test-en-news-csmonitor-com-7750-16
    source: In some rural African communities, civil society organizations are replacing
      a harmful rite of passage with health education. One such program helped Kamanda
      Timayio, leader of the Masai village of Maparasha, Kenya, change his mind about
      female genital mutilation. He told Le Monde that he had "emerged from ignorance"
      and would abandon the practice.
    target: "在一些非洲农村社区，民间社会组织正在用健康教育取代有害的成年礼。其中一个项目帮助肯尼亚马帕拉沙马赛村的领袖 Kamanda Timayio 改变了对女性生殖器切割的看法。他告诉《世界报》，他已经“走出无知”，并将放弃这一做法。"
  - id: test-en-news-csmonitor-com-7750-17
    source: The World Bank cites other examples. From 1970 to 2022, Bangladesh quadrupled
      female literacy rates and doubled female participation in the labor force. Its
      gross domestic product more than tripled. The change gathered its own momentum.
      Recruiting salaried women as teachers and health workers from within their own
      communities boosted trust "and made women's mobility and work more socially
      acceptable."
    target: "世界银行还引用了其他例子。从1970年到2022年，孟加拉国女性识字率翻了两番，女性劳动参与率翻了一番。其国内生产总值增长了两倍多。这种变化形成了自己的势头。从社区内部招聘有薪女性担任教师和卫生工作者增强了信任，“并使女性的流动和工作在社会上更被接受”。"
  - id: test-en-news-csmonitor-com-7750-18
    source: The bank's plan would target norms and institutions that may still require
      generational shifts. It has taken Rwanda more than two decades to establish
      itself as a model for land reforms that boost economic empowerment for women."No
      one benefits if women are held back," Rwanda President Paul Kagame said, arguing
      for land reform in 2015. "We have to change mindsets, not just the laws."
    target: "世界银行的计划将针对可能仍需代际转变的规范和制度。卢旺达用了二十多年才将自己确立为促进女性经济赋权的土地改革典范。“如果女性受到阻碍，没有人会受益，”卢旺达总统保罗·卡加梅在2015年主张土地改革时说。“我们必须改变心态，而不仅仅是法律。”"
  - id: test-en-news-csmonitor-com-7750-19
    source: The World Bank hopes to spread that message.
    target: "世界银行希望传播这一信息。"
  - id: test-en-news-economist-14223-20
    source: German farmers and train drivers are scaring Germany's bosses
    target: "德国农民和火车司机让德国老板们感到害怕"
  - id: test-en-news-economist-14223-21
    source: In Germany, where workers and bosses run many companies jointly, a big
      strike is unusual. A wave of big strikes is almost unheard of. Right now the
      country of "co-determination" is simultaneously facing an eight-day "action
      week" by irate farmers, who blocked roads with tractors, a three-day strike
      of railway workers and, to top it off, a looming strike of doctors, who already
      closed surgeries between Christmas and New Year's Day. This Mistgabelmop (pitchfork
      mob), as some have taken to calling it, will test Germany's harmonious labour
      relations in the year to come.
    target: "在德国，工人和老板共同管理许多公司，大规模罢工并不常见。一波大规模罢工几乎闻所未闻。如今，这个“共决制”国家同时面临愤怒农民为期八天的“行动周”，他们用拖拉机堵塞道路；铁路工人为期三天的罢工；更有甚者，医生也即将罢工，他们已经在圣诞节到元旦期间关闭了诊所。一些人开始称之为“Mistgabelmop”（干草叉暴民），这将考验德国未来一年和谐的劳资关系。"
  - id: test-en-news-economist-14223-22
    source: The protests were ostensibly set off by the government's decision to end
      subsidies for diesel fuel used in agriculture and to cut an exemption from car
      tax for farm vehicles. These measures pushed farmers over the edge. It also
      mobilised other angry workers, already straining under the pressure of inflation,
      recession and the government's self-imposed austerity. On January 9th drivers
      of freight and passenger trains at Deutsche Bahn, the national railway, began
      a strike over working hours and pay.
    target: "表面上看，抗议是由政府决定终止农业用柴油补贴以及取消农用车辆汽车税豁免所引发的。这些措施把农民逼到了极限。它也动员了其他愤怒的工人，他们已经在通货膨胀、衰退和政府自行实施的紧缩政策压力下不堪重负。1月9日，国家铁路德国铁路（Deutsche Bahn）的货运和客运列车司机开始就工作时间和薪酬举行罢工。"
  - id: test-en-news-economist-14223-23
    source: In an effort to defuse the tension with the farmers, the government agreed
      to a gradual removal of the diesel subsidy over three years and to keeping the
      exemption from the car tax. The farmers pooh-poohed the concessions as insufficient.
      On January 4th an aggressive group of them prevented Robert Habeck, the economy
      minister, from disembarking from a ferry on his return from a family holiday.
      If the train drivers are similarly unimpressed, that could prove expensive for
      German business, reckons IW Köln, a think-tank. The rail strike could cost businesses
      €100m ($110m) a day if it forced them to interrupt production. The car, chemical
      and steel industries, Germany's biggest, are especially reliant on rail transport.
    target: "为了缓和与农民的紧张关系，政府同意在三年内逐步取消柴油补贴，并保留汽车税豁免。农民对这些让步嗤之以鼻，认为不够。1月4日，一群激进的农民阻止经济部长罗伯特·哈贝克结束家庭度假乘渡轮下船。智库科隆经济研究所（IW Köln）认为，如果火车司机同样不买账，这可能会让德国企业付出高昂代价。如果铁路罢工迫使企业中断生产，每天可能造成企业1亿欧元（1.1亿美元）的损失。德国最大的汽车、化工和钢铁行业尤其依赖铁路运输。"
  - id: test-en-news-economist-14223-24
    source: The workers" mood is increasingly angry. "Appeals are circulating with
      fantasies of revolution," warned Mr Habeck. The far-right Alternative for Germany
      party is doing its best to fan the grievances. In Dresden the Free Saxons, another
      far-right group, infiltrated the farmers" protest calling for the "extinction
      of the traffic light" (as the governing coalition of the Social Democrats, Free
      Democrats and Greens is referred to because of their party colours).
    target: "工人们的情绪越来越愤怒。“带有革命幻想的呼吁正在流传，”哈贝克警告说。极右翼德国选择党正竭力煽动不满情绪。在德累斯顿，另一个极右翼团体“自由萨克森人”混入农民抗议，呼吁“让红绿灯熄灭”（这是对社会民主党、自由民主党和绿党组成的执政联盟的称呼，因其政党颜色而得名）。"
  - id: test-en-news-economist-14223-25
    source: Thomas Puls of IW Köln fears that the strikes will harm the image of Germany
      as a place for business. Local bosses are already fretting about a German version
      of the gilets jaunes protests in France in 2018, which culminated in yellow-jacketed
      demonstrators torching cars on the Champs-Elysées and the police stepping in
      with tear gas. Jochen Kopelke, head of Germany's police union, warned in an
      interview with Tagesspiegel, a daily, that the farmers were probably "just the
      start of an enormous wave of protest this year." Germany was the only big economy
      to shrink in 2023, and the year ended on an especially sour note, with an unexpected
      drop in business confidence in December. This year is shaping up to be even
      tougher.
    target: "科隆经济研究所的 Thomas Puls 担心罢工将损害德国作为商业场所的形象。当地老板们已经在担忧德国版2018年法国“黄马甲”抗议，那场抗议最终演变为身穿黄马甲的示威者在香榭丽舍大街焚烧汽车，警察使用催泪瓦斯介入。德国警察工会主席 Jochen Kopelke 在接受《每日镜报》采访时警告说，农民可能“只是今年巨大抗议浪潮的开始”。德国是2023年唯一萎缩的大型经济体，而这一年以特别糟糕的局面收尾，12月商业信心意外下降。今年预计会更加艰难。"
  - id: test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-26
    source: Brewers froth over winemakers" exemption from anti-waste rules
    target: "酿酒商对葡萄酒商豁免反浪费规则感到愤怒"
  - id: test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-27
    source: As the EU debates rules to limit packaging waste, beer producers argue
      they are being unfairly discriminated against with exemptions for winemakers
      from reuse targets and deposit-return schemes, but one of Europe's wine industry
      association chiefs says brewers should "mind their own business."
    target: "在欧盟讨论限制包装废弃物的规则之际，啤酒生产商认为，葡萄酒商被豁免再利用目标和押金返还计划，使他们受到不公平歧视，但欧洲葡萄酒行业协会的一位负责人表示，酿酒商应该“管好自己的事”。"
  - id: test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-28
    source: European brewers have warned that exempting wine and not beer from deposit
      return schemes and reuse targets is unfair and potentially illegal, as lawmakers
      enter final talks over a new law designed to turn a surging tide of packaging
      waste across the EU.
    target: "欧洲酿酒商警告说，将葡萄酒而非啤酒豁免于押金返还计划和再利用目标之外是不公平的，而且可能违法。此时立法者正就一项旨在扭转欧盟各地包装废弃物激增趋势的新法律进入最后谈判。"
  - id: test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-29
    source: Environment ministers agreed an EU Council negotiating mandate on the proposed
      Packaging and Packaging Waste Regulation (PPWR) before Christmas, paving the
      way for imminent political talks with the European Parliament, which are already
      underway at the technical level.
    target: "圣诞节前，环境部长们就拟议的《包装和包装废弃物法规》（PPWR）达成了欧盟理事会谈判授权，为即将与欧洲议会进行的政治谈判铺平道路，相关技术层面的谈判已经在进行中。"
  - id: test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-30
    source: '"Our position is clear," the trade association Brewers of Europe wrote
      to MEPs and government negotiators (10 January). "If targets and mandatory requirements
      in the PPWR apply to beer then there is a legal obligation that they apply to
      all alcoholic beverage categories."'
    target: "“我们的立场很明确，”行业协会欧洲酿酒商协会在1月10日致欧洲议会议员和政府谈判代表的信中写道。“如果PPWR中的目标和强制性要求适用于啤酒，那么就有法律义务使其适用于所有酒精饮料类别。”"
  - id: test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-31
    source: The 18 December ministerial summit yielded a carve out for winemakers
      from the requirement that, by the end of the decade, 10% of products must be
      supplied in reusable containers within a system for reuse or refill, rising
      to 40% in 2040. The exemption would also apply to the requirement, likewise
      supported by the European Parliament, that wine should be exempt from deposit-return
      schemes that should be put in place by 2029 under the proposal.
    target: "12月18日的部长级峰会为葡萄酒商争取到一项豁免，使其不受以下要求约束：到本十年末，10%的产品必须在再利用或再填充系统中以可重复使用容器供应，到2040年这一比例提高到40%。该豁免还将适用于另一项同样得到欧洲议会支持的要求，即根据该提案，葡萄酒应免于2029年前应建立的押金返还计划。"
  - id: test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-32
    source: Both the Czech and Belgian ministers immediately expressed reservations
      at the 18 December summit about the unequal treatment for brewers, but acquiesced.
      Belgium, which now chairs the rotating EU Council presidency and is therefore
      in principle neutral in terms of inter-governmental negotiations, hopes to clinch
      a deal with the parliament by early March.
    target: "在12月18日的峰会上，捷克和比利时部长立即对酿酒商受到的不平等待遇表示保留意见，但最终默许。比利时目前担任欧盟理事会轮值主席国，因此原则上在政府间谈判中保持中立，希望能在3月初与欧洲议会达成协议。"
  - id: test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-33
    source: Ignacio Sánchez Recarte, secretary general of the Comité Européen des
      Entreprises Vins trade association representing some 7,000 wine producers across
      Europe, is dismissive of the concerns of the beer makers. He told Euronews that
      a market dominated by multinational brewing conglomerates bears no comparison
      with one comprised almost entirely of small, domestic producers.
    target: "代表欧洲约7000家葡萄酒生产商的欧洲葡萄酒企业委员会（Comité Européen des Entreprises Vins）秘书长 Ignacio Sánchez Recarte 对啤酒制造商的担忧不以为然。他告诉 Euronews，由跨国酿酒集团主导的市场与几乎全部由小型国内生产商组成的市场无法相提并论。"
  - id: test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-34
    source: More than 99% of the domestic wine sector is made up of micro- to medium-sized
      companies, Sánchez Recarte said, questioning the solidity of legal arguments
      made by brewers and asserting that his organisation had focused on presenting
      policy makers with information "relevant and appropriate" to its own industry.
    target: "Sánchez Recarte 说，国内葡萄酒行业超过99%由微型到中型企业组成，他质疑酿酒商法律论据的可靠性，并声称他的组织一直专注于向政策制定者提供与其自身行业“相关且适当”的信息。"
  - id: test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-35
    source: '"It is not my role to estimate if the beer sector should have this or
      that target, as it would depend on the intrinsic characteristics of their own
      sector," Sánchez Recarte said. "In the same way, brewers should mind their own
      business and focus on their own responsibilities."'
    target: "“评估啤酒行业是否应该有这样的或那样的目标不是我的职责，因为这取决于他们自身行业的内在特征，”Sánchez Recarte 说。“同样，酿酒商应该管好自己的事，专注于自己的责任。”"
  - id: test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-36
    source: Brewers of Europe shared with Euronews a brief legal analysis it sent
      to the European Commission last year, where it argues that wine and beer are
      competing products that are "at least partially, substitutable with each other,"
      and which argued that rules favouring one over the other would distort the market.
    target: "欧洲酿酒商协会与 Euronews 分享了一份去年发给欧盟委员会的简短法律分析，其中认为葡萄酒和啤酒是竞争产品，“至少部分可以相互替代”，并认为偏袒一方的规则会扭曲市场。"
  - id: test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-37
    source: Simon Spillane, the lobby group's head of operations, said brewers were
      "already leading the way" in packaging sustainability, citing the example of
      beer kegs being reused around 165 times before being crushed and recycled after
      30 years. They support reuse recycling systems already in place in many countries,
      he said.
    target: "该游说团体的运营主管 Simon Spillane 表示，酿酒商在包装可持续性方面“已经走在前列”，并举例说啤酒桶在30年后被压碎回收之前可重复使用约165次。他说，他们支持许多国家已经建立的重用回收系统。"
  - id: test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-38
    source: '"We therefore advocate for an ambitious PPWR but need a level playing
      field in packaging legislation where beer and other alcoholic beverages play
      by the same rules, with each sector contributing fairly to reaching the targets
      and supporting collection systems," Spillane told. "Any other approach puts
      the brewers at a competitive disadvantage."'
    target: "“因此，我们主张制定雄心勃勃的PPWR，但需要在包装立法中提供公平的竞争环境，让啤酒和其他酒精饮料遵守相同的规则，每个行业都为达到目标和支持收集系统做出公平贡献，”Spillane 表示。“任何其他做法都会使酿酒商处于竞争劣势。”"
  - id: test-en-news-newsrepublic-com-6817-39
    source: The Biden Administration Is Letting Corporate Criminals Off the Hook
    target: "拜登政府正在放任企业犯罪分子逍遥法外"
  - id: test-en-news-newsrepublic-com-6817-40
    source: Tim Whitehouse, a former EPA enforcement attorney and the executive director
      of Public Employees for Environmental Responsibility, praised the Biden administration's
      recent improvements on enforcement while acknowledging the strong headwinds
      such efforts face. "It takes years of sustained funding and political support
      to build a good enforcement program," he told me. "The instability in Congress
      is not only demoralizing to EPA staff but undermines their ability to think
      strategically over the long term."
    target: "Tim Whitehouse 曾是环境保护署（EPA）执法律师，也是“公共雇员环境责任组织”执行主任。他赞扬拜登政府最近在执法方面的改进，同时承认此类努力面临强劲阻力。“建立一个良好的执法项目需要多年持续的资金和政治支持，”他告诉我。“国会的不稳定不仅让EPA员工士气低落，还削弱了他们进行长期战略思考的能力。”"
  - id: test-en-news-newsrepublic-com-6817-41
    source: The problems at the EPA are distinct but not unrelated to those at the
      Department of Justice, which handles environmental crimes via its Environment
      and Natural Resources Division, or ENRD. Prior to joining the EPA, Uhlmann -
      the EPA assistant secretary for enforcement - had served as the longtime head
      of that division's Environmental Crimes Section, from 1990 through 2007. The
      EPA sends its most serious civil and criminal cases to ENRD, which - as a relatively
      underfunded office - often relies on other agencies in helping to choose which
      fights to take on. In fiscal year 2022, the EPA deferred fewer cases to DOJ
      (88) than at any point since 2000 and concluded fewer civil judicial cases than
      it had since that time, as well. As the Environmental Integrity Project notes,
      even Trump's EPA concluded 94 civil cases and deferred 106 cases per year to
      the DOJ per year, on average.
    target: "EPA的问题与司法部的问题不同，但并非无关。司法部通过其环境与自然资源司（ENRD）处理环境犯罪。在加入EPA之前，Uhlmann——EPA负责执法的助理部长——曾长期担任该司环境犯罪科科长，从1990年到2007年。EPA将其最严重的民事和刑事案件移交给ENRD，而ENRD作为一个资金相对不足的办公室，往往依赖其他机构帮助选择要处理哪些案件。2022财年，EPA向司法部移交的案件（88件）比2000年以来的任何时期都少，审结的民事司法案件也比那时以来任何时期都少。正如环境完整性项目所指出的，即使是特朗普时期的EPA，平均每年也审结94件民事案件，并向司法部移交106件案件。"
  - id: test-en-news-newsrepublic-com-6817-42
    source: The Department of Justice's overall approach to corporate crimes has come
      under intense scrutiny from advocates. While watchdogs have lauded some steps
      the department has taken during Merrick Garland's tenure as attorney general
      - like finally establishing a database on corporate crime - Biden's DOJ has
      also leaned heavily on leniency agreements that allow companies to defer or
      avoid prosecution, and encouraged companies to scapegoat individual employees
      so as to avoid a broader charge. Kenneth Polite Jr., former assistant attorney
      general for DOJ's Criminal Division, revised the division's corporate enforcement
      policy so as to limit prosecutions.
    target: "司法部对企业犯罪的总体处理方式受到倡导者的严格审视。虽然监督机构赞扬了该部在梅里克·加兰担任司法部长期间采取的一些措施——比如终于建立了企业犯罪数据库——但拜登的司法部也严重依赖宽大协议，允许公司暂缓或避免起诉，并鼓励公司让个别员工当替罪羊，以避免更广泛的指控。司法部刑事司前助理部长小肯尼斯·波利特修订了该司的企业执法政策，以限制起诉。"