header:
  namespace: clarion
  clan: hongloumeng-joly
  source-language: zh-CN
  target-language: en-US
groups:
- path: chapter-1
  entries:
  - id: chapter-1-001
    source: 此開卷第一回也．作者自云：因曾歷過一番夢幻之后，故將真事隱去， 而借"通靈"之說，撰此《石頭記》一書也．故曰"甄士隱"云云．但書中所記 何事何人？自又云：“今風塵碌碌，一事無成，忽念及當日所有之女子，一
      一細考較去，覺其行止見識，皆出于我之上．何我堂堂須眉，誠不若彼裙釵 哉？實愧則有余，悔又無益之大無可如何之日也！當此，則自欲將已往所賴 天恩祖德，錦衣紈褲之時，飫甘饜肥之日，背父兄教育之恩，負師友規談之
      德，以至今日一技無成，半生潦倒之罪，編述一集，以告天下人：我之罪固 不免，然閨閣中本自歷歷有人，万不可因我之不肖，自護己短，一并使其泯 滅也．雖今日之茅椽蓬牖，瓦灶繩床，其晨夕風露，階柳庭花，亦未有妨我
      之襟怀筆墨者．雖我未學，下筆無文，又何妨用假語村言，敷演出一段故事 來，亦可使閨閣昭傳，复可悅世之目，破人愁悶，不亦宜乎？"故曰"賈雨村 "云云．
    target: This is the opening chapter of the book. The author says: Having once passed through a dreamlike experience, he concealed the true events and, borrowing the tale of the "Spiritual Stone," wrote this book, The Story of the Stone. Hence the name "Zhen Shiyin" and so forth. But what events and what persons does the book record? He further says: "Now, busy and bustling in this dusty world, I have accomplished nothing. Suddenly I thought of all the women of former days, and as I examined them one by one in detail, I felt that their conduct and insight were all superior to mine. How is it that I, a proper man with whiskers and brows, am truly inferior to those skirted and pinned ladies? Indeed, shame is more than enough, and regret is useless—a day of utter helplessness! At this time, I wished to take the days when I relied on Heaven's grace and ancestral virtue, when I wore embroidered silks and fine trousers, when I feasted on sweet and rich fare, and how I turned my back on the kindness of my father and elder brother's instruction, and failed the virtue of my teachers' and friends' admonitions, until today I have not mastered a single skill and have spent half my life in ruin—this guilt I would compile into a collection to tell the world: my guilt cannot be avoided, but within the women's chambers there were indeed many remarkable persons. I must not, because of my own unworthiness and self-protective concealment of faults, let them be extinguished along with me. Though today I dwell in a thatched hut with paper windows, a clay stove and a rope bed, the morning and evening wind and dew, the willows by the steps and flowers in the courtyard, do not hinder my heart or my brush. Though I am unlearned and my writing lacks literary grace, what harm is there in using rustic speech and village talk to spin out a tale, so that the women of the inner chambers may be made known, and the world's eyes be delighted and their sorrows dispelled? Is that not fitting?" Hence the name "Jia Yucun" and so forth.
  - id: chapter-1-002
    source: 此回中凡用“夢”用“幻”等字，是提醒閱者眼目，亦是此書立意本旨 ．
    target: In this chapter, the frequent use of words like "dream" and "illusion" is meant to alert the reader's eye and is also the fundamental intent of this book.
  - id: chapter-1-003
    source: 原來女媧氏煉石補天之時，于大荒山無稽崖練成高經十二丈，方經二十 四丈頑石三万六千五百零一塊．媧皇氏只用了三万六千五百塊，只單單剩了 一塊未用，便棄在此山青埂峰下．誰知此石自經段煉之后，靈性已通，因見
      眾石俱得補天，獨自己無材不堪入選，遂自怨自歎，日夜悲號慚愧．
    target: It happened that when the goddess Nüwa was refining stones to repair the sky, at the base of the Wuji Cliff on the Great Waste Mountain, she fashioned thirty-six thousand five hundred and one blocks of stone, each twelve zhang in height and twenty-four zhang square. The goddess used only thirty-six thousand five hundred of them, leaving a single block unused, which she cast aside at the foot of Green Ridge Peak on this mountain. Who would have thought that after this stone had been refined, it had become endowed with spiritual intelligence. Seeing that all the other stones had been used to repair the sky, while it alone was unfit for selection due to its lack of talent, it began to lament its fate, crying out day and night in shame and grief.
  - id: chapter-1-004
    source: 空空道人遂向石頭說道：“石兄，你這一段故事，据你自己說有些趣味 ，故編寫在此，意欲問世傳奇．据我看來，第一件，無朝代年紀可考，第二 件，并無大賢大忠理朝廷治風俗的善政，其中只不過几個异樣女子，或情或
      痴，或小才微善，亦無班姑，蔡女之德能．我縱抄去，恐世人不愛看呢。” 石頭笑答道：“我師何太痴耶！若云無朝代可考，今我師竟假借漢唐等年紀 添綴，又有何難？但我想，歷來野史，皆蹈一轍，莫如我這不借此套者，反
      倒新奇別致，不過只取其事体情理罷了，又何必拘拘于朝代年紀哉！再者， 市井俗人喜看理治之書者甚少，愛适趣閒文者特多．歷來野史，或訕謗君相 ，或貶人妻女，奸淫凶惡，不可胜數．更有一种風月筆墨，其淫穢污臭，屠
      毒筆墨，坏人子弟，又不可胜數．至若佳人才子等書，則又千部共出一套， 且其中終不能不涉于淫濫，以致滿紙潘安，子建，西子，文君，不過作者要 寫出自己的那兩首情詩艷賦來，故假擬出男女二人名姓，又必旁出一小人其
      間撥亂，亦如劇中之小丑然．且鬟婢開口即者也之乎，非文即理．故逐一看 去，悉皆自相矛盾，大不近情理之話，竟不如我半世親睹親聞的這几個女子 ，雖不敢說強似前代書中所有之人，但事跡原委，亦可以消愁破悶，也有几
      首歪詩熟話，可以噴飯供酒．至若离合悲歡，興衰際遇，則又追蹤躡跡，不 敢稍加穿鑿，徒為供人之目而反失其真傳者．今之人，貧者日為衣食所累， 富者又怀不足之心，縱然一時稍閒，又有貪淫戀色，好貨尋愁之事，那里去
      有工夫看那理治之書？所以我這一段故事，也不愿世人稱奇道妙，也不定要 世人喜悅檢讀，只愿他們當那醉淫飽臥之時，或避世去愁之際，把此一玩， 豈不省了些壽命筋力？就比那謀虛逐妄，卻也省了口舌是非之害，腿腳奔忙
      之．再者，亦令世人換新眼目，不比那些胡牽亂扯，忽离忽遇，滿紙才人 淑女，子建文君紅娘小玉等通共熟套之舊稿．我師意為何如？”
    target: The Taoist Kongkong then said to the stone: "Brother Stone, this story of yours, as you yourself say, has some interest, and so you have written it here, wishing to bring it to the world as a tale of wonder. As I see it, first, there is no dynasty or era to verify it by; second, there are no great sages or loyal ministers governing the court or reforming customs. It contains only a few extraordinary women, some amorous, some infatuated, some with minor talents and small virtues—none with the moral excellence of Ban Gu or Cai Yan. Even if I were to copy it out, I fear the world would not care to read it." The stone replied with a smile: "Master, why are you so foolish! If you say there is no dynasty to verify, what difficulty is there for you, Master, to borrow the reigns of Han or Tang and add them on? But I think that all the unofficial histories of the past have followed the same worn path. Better that mine does not borrow this convention, and is instead novel and distinctive, taking only the truth of events and human feeling. Why be so rigidly bound to dynasty and era! Moreover, among the common folk of the marketplace, few enjoy reading books of governance and morality, while many delight in light and amusing writings. The unofficial histories of the past either slander rulers and ministers, or defame men's wives and daughters, with lewdness and villainy beyond count. There is also a kind of romantic writing, filthy and foul, poisonous to the brush and corrupting to young people, also beyond count. As for books of beautiful maidens and gifted scholars, a thousand volumes all come from the same mold, and they cannot avoid descending into licentiousness, filling every page with Pan An, Zijian, Xishi, and Wenjun—merely because the author wishes to display his own two love poems and flowery rhapsodies, so he invents the names of a man and a woman, and must also bring in a minor villain to stir up trouble, like a clown in a play. And the maidservants speak in classical flourishes, nothing but literary and moralizing phrases. Read them one by one, and they are all self-contradictory, wildly improbable talk. They are not as good as these few women I have seen and heard with my own eyes in half a lifetime. Though I dare not say they surpass all the characters in earlier books, yet the full account of their deeds can dispel sorrow and relieve boredom, and there are a few crooked verses and familiar sayings that can make one laugh over food and drink. As for partings and reunions, joys and sorrows, rises and falls, I have followed the traces closely, not daring to add the slightest fabrication, merely to please the eye and lose the true record. The people of today—the poor are burdened daily by food and clothing, the rich harbor discontented hearts, and even when they have a moment of leisure, there are matters of lust and greed, love of goods and pursuit of worry—where would they find the time to read books of governance? Therefore, in this story of mine, I do not wish the world to marvel at its wonders, nor do I insist that they delight in reading it. I only hope that when they are drunk, sated, and lying idle, or when they seek to escape the world and dispel their sorrows, they might play with this book—would that not save some of their lifespan and strength? Compared to chasing after vain schemes and empty illusions, it would also spare them the harm of gossip and dispute, and the toil of running about. Moreover, it will give the world fresh eyes, unlike those old manuscripts full of random fabrications, sudden partings and meetings, and pages crowded with gifted men and virtuous ladies, Zijian, Wenjun, Hongniang, Xiaoyu, and all the familiar stock characters. What does my Master think of this?"
  - id: chapter-1-005
    source: 空空道人听如此說，思忖半晌，將《石頭記》再檢閱一遍，因見上面雖 有些指奸責佞貶惡誅邪之語，亦非傷時罵世之旨，及至君仁臣良父慈子孝， 凡倫常所關之處，皆是稱功頌德，眷眷無窮，實非別書之可比．雖其中大旨
      談論，亦不過實錄其事，又非假擬妄稱，一味淫邀艷約，私訂偷盟之可比． 因毫不干涉時世，方從頭至尾抄錄回來，問世傳奇．從此空空道人因空見色 ，由色生情，傳情入色，自色悟空，遂易名為情僧，改《石頭記》為《情僧
      錄》．東魯孔梅溪則題曰《風月寶鑒》．后因曹雪芹于悼紅軒中披閱十載， 增刪五次，纂成目錄，分出章回，則題曰《金陵十二釵》．并題一絕云：
    target: Hearing this, the Taoist Kongkong pondered for a long while, then examined The Story of the Stone once more. He saw that although it contained some words pointing out treachery, condemning flatterers, and denouncing evil and wickedness, it was not aimed at criticizing the times or cursing the world. Wherever it touched upon the bonds of human relations—the benevolence of rulers, the loyalty of ministers, the kindness of fathers, the filial piety of sons—it sang praises of merit and virtue with endless affection, truly incomparable to other books. Though its main themes were discussed at length, it was no more than a faithful record of events, not to be compared with those works of false invention and reckless claims, full of licentious trysts and secret pledges. Since it in no way touched upon current affairs, he copied it from beginning to end and brought it to the world as a tale of wonder. From then on, the Taoist Kongkong, seeing form through emptiness, giving rise to feeling from form, transmitting feeling into form, and from form awakening to emptiness, changed his name to the Monk of Passion and renamed The Story of the Stone as The Record of the Monk of Passion. Kong Meixi of eastern Lu titled it The Precious Mirror of Romance. Later, Cao Xueqin, having perused it for ten years in his Mourning Red Studio, revised it five times, compiled the table of contents, and divided it into chapters, titled it The Twelve Beauties of Jinling. He also inscribed a quatrain:
  - id: chapter-1-006
    source: 當日地陷東南，這東南一隅有處曰姑蘇，有城曰閶門者，最是紅塵中一 二等富貴風流之地．這閶門外有個十里街，街內有個仁清巷，巷內有個古廟 ，因地方窄狹，人皆呼作葫蘆廟．廟旁住著一家鄉宦，姓甄，名費，字士隱
      ．嫡妻封氏，情性賢淑，深明禮義．家中雖不甚富貴，然本地便也推他為望 族了．因這甄士隱稟性恬淡，不以功名為念，每日只以觀花修竹，酌酒吟詩 為樂，倒是神仙一流人品．只是一件不足：如今年已半百，膝下無儿，只有
      一女，乳名喚作英蓮，年方三歲．
    target: In those days, when the earth tilted toward the southeast, there was in that southeastern corner a place called Gusu, and within it a city gate called Changmen, which was among the foremost places of wealth, rank, and romance in the mortal world. Outside this Changmen gate there was a Ten Mile Street, and within the street a Lane of Renqing, and within the lane an old temple. Because the place was narrow and cramped, everyone called it Gourd Temple. Beside the temple lived a retired local official, surnamed Zhen, named Fei, with the courtesy name Shiyin. His lawful wife, née Feng, was of a virtuous and gentle disposition, deeply versed in propriety and righteousness. Though the family was not exceedingly wealthy, they were regarded as a prominent clan in the locality. Because Zhen Shiyin was by nature tranquil and indifferent, with no thought for fame or office, he spent his days delighting in viewing flowers, trimming bamboo, pouring wine, and chanting poetry—a man of immortal quality. There was but one deficiency: though he was now past fifty, he had no son at his knee, only a daughter, whose milk name was Yinglian, just three years old.
  - id: chapter-1-007
    source: 一日，炎夏永晝，士隱于書房閒坐，至手倦拋書，伏几少憩，不覺朦朧 睡去．夢至一處，不辨是何地方．忽見那廂來了一僧一道，且行且談．只听 道人問道：“你攜了這蠢物，意欲何往？"那僧笑道：“你放心，如今現有
      一段風流公案正該了結，這一干風流冤家，尚未投胎入世．趁此机會，就將 此蠢物夾帶于中，使他去經歷經歷。”那道人道：“原來近日風流冤孽又將 造劫歷世去不成？但不知落于何方何處？"那僧笑道：“此事說來好笑，竟
      是千古未聞的罕事．只因西方靈河岸上三生石畔，有絳珠草一株，時有赤瑕 宮神瑛侍者，日以甘露灌溉，這絳珠草始得久延歲月．后來既受天地精華， 复得雨露滋養，遂得脫卻草胎木質，得換人形，僅修成個女体，終日游于离
      恨天外，饑則食蜜青果為膳，渴則飲灌愁海水為湯．只因尚未酬報灌溉之德 ，故其五內便郁結著一段纏綿不盡之意．恰近日這神瑛侍者凡心偶熾，乘此 昌明太平朝世，意欲下凡造歷幻緣，已在警幻仙子案前挂了號．警幻亦曾問
      及，灌溉之情未償，趁此倒可了結的．那絳珠仙子道：`他是甘露之惠，我 并無此水可還．他既下世為人，我也去下世為人，但把我一生所有的眼淚還 他，也償還得過他了．'因此一事，就勾出多少風流冤家來，陪他們去了結
      此案。”那道人道：“果是罕聞．實未聞有還淚之說．想來這一段故事，比 歷來風月事故更加瑣碎細膩了。”那僧道：“歷來几個風流人物，不過傳其 大概以及詩詞篇章而已，至家庭閨閣中一飲一食，總未述記．再者，大半風
      月故事，不過偷香竊玉，暗約私奔而已，并不曾將儿女之真情發泄一二．想 這一干人入世，其情痴色鬼，賢愚不肖者，悉与前人傳述不同矣。”那道人 道：“趁此何不你我也去下世度脫几個，豈不是一場功德？"那僧道：“正
      合吾意，你且同我到警幻仙子宮中，將蠢物交割清楚，待這一干風流孽鬼下 世已完，你我再去．如今雖已有一半落塵，然猶未全集。”道人道：“既如 此，便隨你去來。”
    target: One day, in the long heat of summer, Shiyin sat idly in his study. When his hand grew weary, he set down his book and rested his head on the desk for a while, and before he knew it, he drifted into a hazy sleep. In his dream he came to a place whose location he could not discern. Suddenly he saw a monk and a Taoist approaching from the other side, walking and talking together. He heard the Taoist ask: "Where do you intend to take this foolish thing?" The monk replied with a smile: "Rest assured. There is a romantic case that is now due to be settled, and this band of romantic debtors has not yet been born into the world. Taking this opportunity, I will slip this foolish thing in among them, so that it may go and experience the world." The Taoist said: "So the romantic sinners of recent times are again to create calamities and pass through the world? But I wonder to what place and where they will fall?" The monk laughed: "This matter is amusing to tell—it is a rare thing unheard of in a thousand ages. On the bank of the Spirit River in the west, beside the Stone of Three Lives, there grew a single Crimson Pearl Plant. At that time, the Divine Attendant in the Palace of Red Sunlight daily watered it with sweet dew, and only thus did the Crimson Pearl Plant prolong its years. Later, having received the essence of heaven and earth and nourished by rain and dew, it shed its grassy form and took on human shape, cultivating only a female body. All day she wandered beyond the Heaven of Parting Sorrows; when hungry, she fed on the fruit of Secret Love as her fare; when thirsty, she drank the water of the Sea of Sorrows as her soup. Because she had not yet repaid the kindness of watering, within her five organs there was knotted an endless, lingering feeling. Just recently, the Divine Attendant's mortal heart chanced to burn with desire, and taking advantage of this bright and peaceful age, he wished to descend to the mortal world to experience the illusion of fate. He had already registered his name before the desk of the Fairy of Disenchantment. The fairy had also asked about the unrequited kindness of watering, saying this was an opportunity to settle it. The Crimson Pearl Fairy said: 'His was the grace of sweet dew, and I have no such water to repay him with. Since he is going down to be born as a man, I too will go down and be born as a woman, and I will repay him with all the tears of my lifetime—that should be enough to settle the debt.' Because of this matter, how many romantic debtors were drawn forth to accompany them in settling this case!" The Taoist said: "Truly rare to hear. I have never heard of repaying with tears. It seems this story will be even more intricate and delicate than the romantic tales of the past." The monk said: "The romantic figures of the past were only transmitted in broad outline, along with their poems and verses; the daily meals and drinks of the inner chambers were never recorded. Moreover, most romantic tales are merely about stealing fragrance and pilfering jade, secret trysts and elopements, without ever revealing a fraction of the true feelings of young men and women. I think that when this band enters the world, their passion, their folly, their virtue and vice, will all differ from what previous writers have transmitted." The Taoist said: "Why not take this opportunity for you and me to descend to the world and deliver a few souls? Would that not be a meritorious deed?" The monk said: "Exactly my thought. Come with me to the palace of the Fairy of Disenchantment, and we will hand over this foolish thing properly. When this band of romantic ghosts has finished descending into the world, then you and I will go. Though half have already fallen into the dust, they are not yet all gathered." The Taoist said: "If that is so, I will follow you."
  - id: chapter-1-008
    source: 卻說甄士隱俱听得明白，但不知所云"蠢物"系何東西．遂不禁上前施禮 ，笑問道：“二仙師請了。”那僧道也忙答禮相問．士隱因說道：“适聞仙 師所談因果，實人世罕聞者．但弟子愚濁，不能洞悉明白，若蒙大開痴頑，
      備細一聞，弟子則洗耳諦听，稍能警省，亦可免沉倫之苦。”二仙笑道：“ 此乃玄机不可預泄者．到那時不要忘我二人，便可跳出火坑矣。”士隱听了 ，不便再問．因笑道：“玄机不可預泄，但适云`蠢物'，不知為何，或可一
      見否？"那僧道：“若問此物，倒有一面之緣。”說著，取出遞与士隱．士 隱接了看時，原來是塊鮮明美玉，上面字跡分明，鐫著"通靈寶玉"四字，后 面還有几行小字．正欲細看時，那僧便說已到幻境，便強從手中奪了去，与
      道人竟過一大石牌坊，上書四個大字，乃是"太虛幻境"．兩邊又有一幅對聯 ，道是：
    target: Now Zhen Shiyin had heard it all clearly, but he did not know what this "foolish thing" was. He could not help stepping forward, bowing, and asking with a smile: "Greetings to the two immortal masters." The monk and the Taoist hurriedly returned the greeting and asked after him. Shiyin then said: "Just now I overheard the immortals discussing karma—truly something rarely heard in the mortal world. But your disciple is dull and turbid, unable to comprehend it fully. If I might be so favored as to have my ignorance opened wide and hear the matter in full detail, your disciple would listen with washed ears, and if I could be awakened even slightly, I might escape the suffering of sinking into delusion." The two immortals laughed: "This is a profound mystery that cannot be revealed beforehand. When that time comes, do not forget us two, and you will be able to leap out of the pit of fire." Shiyin heard this and did not presume to ask further. He smiled and said: "The profound mystery cannot be revealed beforehand, but as for the 'foolish thing' you mentioned, I wonder what it is—might I be permitted a glimpse?" The monk said: "As for this thing, there is indeed a chance of one meeting." So saying, he took it out and handed it to Shiyin. Shiyin received it and looked—it was a lustrous, beautiful jade, with clear characters engraved upon it, reading "Spiritual Jade" in four characters, and behind them several lines of smaller script. Just as he was about to examine it closely, the monk said they had arrived at the realm of illusion, and forcibly snatched it from his hand. Together with the Taoist, he passed through a great stone archway, upon which were written four large characters: "The Illusory Realm of Great Void." On either side was a couplet, which read:
  - id: chapter-1-009
    source: 這士隱正痴想，忽見隔壁葫蘆廟內寄居的一個窮儒-姓賈名化，表字時 飛，別號雨行者走了出來．這賈雨村原系胡州人氏，也是詩書仕宦之族，因 他生于末世，父母祖宗根基已盡，人口衰喪，只剩得他一身一口，在家鄉無
      益，因進京求取功名，再整基業．自前歲來此，又淹蹇住了，暫寄廟中安身 ，每日賣字作文為生，故士隱常与他交接．當下雨村見了士隱，忙施禮陪笑 道：“老先生倚門佇望，敢是街市上有甚新聞否？"士隱笑道：“非也．适
      因小女啼哭，引他出來作耍，正是無聊之甚，兄來得正妙，請入小齋一談， 彼此皆可消此永晝。”說著，便令人送女儿進去，自与雨村攜手來至書房中 ．小童獻茶．方談得三五句話，忽家人飛報：“嚴老爺來拜。”士隱慌的忙
      起身謝罪道：“恕誑駕之罪，略坐，弟即來陪。”雨村忙起身亦讓道：“老 先生請便．晚生乃常造之客，稍候何妨。”說著，士隱已出前廳去了．
    target: As Shiyin was lost in these fanciful thoughts, he suddenly saw a poor scholar who lodged in the neighboring Gourd Temple—surnamed Jia, named Hua, with the courtesy name Shifei and the sobriquet Yucun—come walking out. This Jia Yucun was originally from Huzhou, also of a family of scholars and officials. Because he was born in the declining age of his family, when the foundations laid by his parents and ancestors were exhausted and his kin had dwindled away, he was left alone with only himself and his mouth. Finding no advantage in his hometown, he had come to the capital to seek office and reestablish his fortunes. Since arriving the year before, he had been delayed and detained, lodging temporarily in the temple, making his living by selling calligraphy and writing compositions. Thus Shiyin often associated with him. When Yucun saw Shiyin, he hurriedly bowed and said with a smile: "Old sir, you stand at the gate gazing—could there be some news in the streets?" Shiyin laughed: "No. It was only because my little daughter was crying that I brought her out to play. I was feeling quite bored, and your arrival is most opportune. Please come into my humble study for a talk, and we can both while away this long day." So saying, he had someone take his daughter inside, and he himself walked hand in hand with Yucun to the study. A young servant served tea. They had exchanged only a few sentences when a servant rushed in to report: "Master Yan has come to pay a call." Shiyin hurriedly rose and apologized: "Forgive me for this deception in inviting you—please sit a while, and I will come to keep you company shortly." Yucun also rose hastily and yielded: "Old sir, please go ahead. I am a frequent guest; a little waiting is no trouble." As he spoke, Shiyin had already gone out to the front hall.
  - id: chapter-1-010
    source: 一日，早又中秋佳節．士隱家宴已畢，乃又另具一席于書房，卻自己步 月至廟中來邀雨村．原來雨村自那日見了甄家之婢曾回顧他兩次，自為是個 知己，便時刻放在心上．今又正值中秋，不免對月有怀，因而口占五言一律
      云：
    target: One day, the Mid-Autumn Festival had come around again. After the family banquet was finished, Shiyin had another table set in the study, and he himself walked by moonlight to the temple to invite Yucun. It turned out that since the day Yucun had seen the Zhen family's maidservant glance back at him twice, he had taken her for a kindred spirit and kept her constantly in his heart. Now that it was again Mid-Autumn, he could not help feeling moved by the moon, and so he improvised a pentasyllabic poem:
  - id: chapter-1-011
    source: 蟾光如有意，先上玉人樓．雨村吟罷，因又思及平生抱負，苦未逢時， 乃又搔首對天長歎，复高吟一聯曰：
    target: "If the toad's light has a mind, let it first ascend the fair one's tower." After Yucun finished chanting, he thought again of his lifelong ambitions, bitterly unfulfilled in their time. He scratched his head and sighed long at the sky, then chanted aloud another couplet:
  - id: chapter-1-012
    source: 可巧這日拄了拐杖掙挫到街前散散心時，忽見那邊來了一個跛足道人， 瘋癲落脫，麻屣鶉衣，口內念著几句言詞，道是：
    target: It happened that on this day, as he struggled along with his staff to the front of the street to ease his heart, he suddenly saw a lame Taoist approaching from the other side, wild and disheveled, with hempen sandals and tattered clothes, chanting a few verses from his mouth, which went:
  - id: chapter-1-013
    source: 痴心父母古來多，孝順儿孫誰見了？士隱听了，便迎上來道：“你滿口 說些什么？只听見些`好'`了'`好'`了'．那道人笑道：“你若果听見`好'`
      了'二字，還算你明白．可知世上万般，好便是了，了便是好．若不了，便 不好，若要好，須是了．我這歌儿，便名《好了歌》"士隱本是有宿慧的， 一聞此言，心中早已徹悟．因笑道：“且住！待我將你這《好了歌》解注出
      來何如？"道人笑道：“你解，你解。”士隱乃說道：
    target: "Foolish-hearted parents have always been many; but filial sons and grandsons—who has ever seen them?" Shiyin heard this and came forward to meet him, saying: "What are you muttering about? I only hear 'good' and 'done,' 'good' and 'done.'" The Taoist laughed: "If you truly hear the words 'good' and 'done,' then you may be counted as understanding. Know that in all the ten thousand things of this world, good is done, and done is good. If not done, then not good; if one wishes good, one must be done. This song of mine is called the 'Song of the Done and Good.'" Shiyin, who was endowed with innate wisdom from a previous life, felt his heart fully awakened at these words. He laughed and said: "Wait! Let me annotate your 'Song of the Done and Good'—how would that be?" The Taoist laughed: "Annotate it, annotate it." Shiyin then said:
  - id: chapter-1-014
    source: 陋室空堂，當年笏滿床，衰草枯楊，曾為歌舞場．蛛絲儿結滿雕梁，綠 紗今又糊在蓬窗上．說什么脂正濃，粉正香，如何兩鬢又成霜？昨日黃土隴 頭送白骨，今宵紅燈帳底臥鴛鴦．金滿箱，銀滿箱，展眼乞丐人皆謗．正歎
      他人命不長，那知自己歸來喪！訓有方，保不定日后作強梁．擇膏粱，誰承 望流落在煙花巷！因嫌紗帽小，致使鎖枷杠，昨怜破襖寒，今嫌紫蟒長：亂 烘烘你方唱罷我登場，反認他鄉是故鄉．甚荒唐，到頭來都是為他人作嫁衣
      裳！那瘋跛道人听了，拍掌笑道：“解得切，解得切！"士隱便說一聲"走罷 ！"將道人肩上褡褳搶了過來背著，竟不回家，同了瘋道人飄飄而去．當下 烘動街坊，眾人當作一件新聞傳說．封氏聞得此信，哭個死去活來，只得与
      父親商議，遣人各處訪尋，那討音信？無奈何，少不得依靠著他父母度日． 幸而身邊還有兩個舊日的丫鬟伏侍，主仆三人，日夜作些針線發賣，幫著父 親用度．那封肅雖然日日抱怨，也無可奈何了．
    target: A mean hut and an empty hall, where once the tablets of office filled the bed; withered grass and dried willows, where once was a place of song and dance. Spider silk knots the carved beams; green gauze now pastes over the rush windows. What talk of rouge being thick, of powder being fragrant—how is it that both temples have turned to frost? Yesterday, at the head of the yellow earth mound, white bones were sent off; tonight, beneath the red lantern canopy, mandarin ducks lie in bed. Gold fills the chest, silver fills the chest—in the blink of an eye, a beggar, and all men revile him. Just as one sighs that another's life is short, who knows that one's own return will be death! To train one's sons with method—there is no guarantee they will not become brigands in the future. To choose a fine match from the rich—who would have expected her to end up in the alley of painted ladies! Because one grudges the smallness of the gauze cap, one ends up bearing the cangue and chains; yesterday one pitied the cold of a tattered coat, today one finds the purple robe too long: in the hubbub, you finish your song and I take the stage, mistaking a foreign land for one's native home. Utterly absurd—in the end, all are sewing wedding clothes for others! When the mad lame Taoist heard this, he clapped his hands and laughed: "Well annotated, well annotated!" Shiyin then said "Let's go!" and snatched the cloth bag from the Taoist's shoulder, slinging it on his own back. He did not return home, but drifted away with the mad Taoist. This stirred up the whole neighborhood, and everyone passed it on as a piece of news. When Feng-shi heard of it, she wept as if she would die, and could only consult with her father, sending people to search everywhere—but what news could be found? Helpless, she had no choice but to depend on her parents for her daily needs. Fortunately, she still had two old maidservants to attend her, and the three of them, mistress and maids, worked day and night at needlework to sell, helping with her father's expenses. Though Feng Su complained daily, there was nothing he could do.