<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<resources>
    <!--clif:source: 此開卷第一回也．作者自云：因曾歷過一番夢幻之后，故將真事隱去， 而借"通靈"之說，撰此《石頭記》一書也．故曰"甄士隱"云云．但書中所記 何事何人？自又云：“今風塵碌碌，一事無成，忽念及當日所有之女子，一 一細考較去，覺其行止見識，皆出于我之上．何我堂堂須眉，誠不若彼裙釵 哉？實愧則有余，悔又無益之大無可如何之日也！當此，則自欲將已往所賴 天恩祖德，錦衣紈褲之時，飫甘饜肥之日，背父兄教育之恩，負師友規談之 德，以至今日一技無成，半生潦倒之罪，編述一集，以告天下人：我之罪固 不免，然閨閣中本自歷歷有人，万不可因我之不肖，自護己短，一并使其泯 滅也．雖今日之茅椽蓬牖，瓦灶繩床，其晨夕風露，階柳庭花，亦未有妨我 之襟怀筆墨者．雖我未學，下筆無文，又何妨用假語村言，敷演出一段故事 來，亦可使閨閣昭傳，复可悅世之目，破人愁悶，不亦宜乎？"故曰"賈雨村 "云云．-->
    <string name="chapter-1-001">This is the opening chapter of the book. The author says: Having once passed through a dreamlike experience, he concealed the true events and, borrowing the tale of the "Spiritual Understanding," wrote this book, The Story of the Stone. Hence the name "Zhen Shiyin" and so forth. But what events and what people are recorded in this book? He further says: "Now, busy and bustling in this dusty world, I have accomplished nothing. Suddenly thinking of all the women of former days, and examining them one by one in detail, I find that their conduct and insight all surpass my own. How is it that I, a dignified man, am truly inferior to those in skirts and hairpins? Indeed, I am filled with shame, and regret is useless—a day of utter helplessness! At such a time, I wish to compile a collection recounting the sins of my past—the days when I relied on Heaven\'s grace and ancestral virtue, clad in brocade and fine silks, feasting on delicacies, turning my back on the kindness of my father and elder brother\'s instruction, and failing the virtue of my teachers\' and friends\' admonitions—until today, when I have mastered no skill and spent half my life in decline. I set this down to tell the world: my sins are indeed unavoidable, but in the inner chambers there were truly remarkable women, one after another. I must not, because of my own unworthiness and self-protective faults, let them be obliterated as well. Though today my thatched roof and wicker windows, my earthen stove and rope bed, with morning and evening wind and dew, stepside willows and courtyard flowers, do not hinder my heart and my pen. Though I am unlearned and my writing lacks literary grace, what harm is there in using rustic language and village talk to spin out a tale? It may also make the inner chambers known to posterity, delight the eyes of the world, and dispel people\'s sorrow and boredom—is that not fitting?" Hence the name "Jia Yucun" and so forth.</string>
    <!--clif:source: 此回中凡用“夢”用“幻”等字，是提醒閱者眼目，亦是此書立意本旨 ．-->
    <string name="chapter-1-002">In this chapter, the frequent use of words like "dream" and "illusion" is meant to alert the reader\'s attention and also reflects the fundamental intent of this book.</string>
    <!--clif:source: 原來女媧氏煉石補天之時，于大荒山無稽崖練成高經十二丈，方經二十 四丈頑石三万六千五百零一塊．媧皇氏只用了三万六千五百塊，只單單剩了 一塊未用，便棄在此山青埂峰下．誰知此石自經段煉之后，靈性已通，因見 眾石俱得補天，獨自己無材不堪入選，遂自怨自歎，日夜悲號慚愧．-->
    <string name="chapter-1-003">It is said that when the goddess Nüwa was refining stones to repair the sky, she fashioned at the Great Waste Mountain, on the Ridge of No Account, thirty-six thousand five hundred and one blocks of stone, each twelve zhang high and twenty-four zhang square. The goddess used only thirty-six thousand five hundred of them, leaving a single block unused, which she cast aside at the foot of Green Ridge Peak on that mountain. Who would have thought that after this stone had been refined, it became endowed with spiritual intelligence. Seeing that all the other stones had been used to repair the sky, while it alone, lacking talent, was unfit for selection, it began to lament and sigh to itself, weeping and wailing day and night in shame.</string>
    <!--clif:source: 空空道人遂向石頭說道：“石兄，你這一段故事，据你自己說有些趣味 ，故編寫在此，意欲問世傳奇．据我看來，第一件，無朝代年紀可考，第二 件，并無大賢大忠理朝廷治風俗的善政，其中只不過几個异樣女子，或情或 痴，或小才微善，亦無班姑，蔡女之德能．我縱抄去，恐世人不愛看呢。” 石頭笑答道：“我師何太痴耶！若云無朝代可考，今我師竟假借漢唐等年紀 添綴，又有何難？但我想，歷來野史，皆蹈一轍，莫如我這不借此套者，反 倒新奇別致，不過只取其事体情理罷了，又何必拘拘于朝代年紀哉！再者， 市井俗人喜看理治之書者甚少，愛适趣閒文者特多．歷來野史，或訕謗君相 ，或貶人妻女，奸淫凶惡，不可胜數．更有一种風月筆墨，其淫穢污臭，屠 毒筆墨，坏人子弟，又不可胜數．至若佳人才子等書，則又千部共出一套， 且其中終不能不涉于淫濫，以致滿紙潘安，子建，西子，文君，不過作者要 寫出自己的那兩首情詩艷賦來，故假擬出男女二人名姓，又必旁出一小人其 間撥亂，亦如劇中之小丑然．且鬟婢開口即者也之乎，非文即理．故逐一看 去，悉皆自相矛盾，大不近情理之話，竟不如我半世親睹親聞的這几個女子 ，雖不敢說強似前代書中所有之人，但事跡原委，亦可以消愁破悶，也有几 首歪詩熟話，可以噴飯供酒．至若离合悲歡，興衰際遇，則又追蹤躡跡，不 敢稍加穿鑿，徒為供人之目而反失其真傳者．今之人，貧者日為衣食所累， 富者又怀不足之心，縱然一時稍閒，又有貪淫戀色，好貨尋愁之事，那里去 有工夫看那理治之書？所以我這一段故事，也不愿世人稱奇道妙，也不定要 世人喜悅檢讀，只愿他們當那醉淫飽臥之時，或避世去愁之際，把此一玩， 豈不省了些壽命筋力？就比那謀虛逐妄，卻也省了口舌是非之害，腿腳奔忙 之．再者，亦令世人換新眼目，不比那些胡牽亂扯，忽离忽遇，滿紙才人 淑女，子建文君紅娘小玉等通共熟套之舊稿．我師意為何如？”-->
    <string name="chapter-1-004">The Taoist Vanitas then said to the stone: "Brother Stone, this story of yours, as you yourself say, has some interest, and so you have written it here, wishing to bring it to the world as a tale of wonder. But as I see it, first, there is no dynasty or era to verify it by; second, it contains no great sages or loyal ministers governing the court or reforming customs. It merely features a few extraordinary women, some sentimental, some infatuated, some with minor talents and small virtues, lacking the moral excellence of Ban Zhao or Cai Wenji. Even if I were to copy it out, I fear the world would not care to read it." The stone replied with a smile: "Master, why are you so foolish! If you say there is no dynasty to verify, what difficulty is there for you, Master, to simply borrow the reigns of Han or Tang and add them on? But I think that all unofficial histories of the past have followed the same worn path. Better that mine, which does not follow that convention, should be novel and distinctive. It merely takes the truth of events and human feelings—why must it be bound by dynasty and era? Moreover, few among the common folk enjoy reading books on governance, while many delight in amusing and entertaining writings. Past unofficial histories either slander rulers and ministers, or defame men\'s wives and daughters, with lewdness and villainy beyond count. There is also a kind of romantic writing, filthy and foul, poisoning the pen and corrupting the young, also beyond count. As for books about gifted scholars and beautiful ladies, a thousand volumes all follow the same formula, and inevitably they descend into licentiousness, filling the pages with Pan An, Zijian, Xishi, and Wenjun—merely because the author wishes to display his own two or three amorous poems and flowery rhapsodies, so he invents the names of a man and a woman, and must also introduce a villain to stir up trouble, like a clown in a play. Moreover, the maidservants speak in classical phrases, always literary and moralistic. Read them one by one, and they are all self-contradictory, utterly implausible. They cannot compare with these few women I have seen and heard with my own eyes in half a lifetime. Though I dare not say they surpass all the characters in earlier books, yet the full account of their deeds can dispel sorrow and break boredom, and there are a few clumsy verses and familiar sayings that can accompany a meal or a cup of wine. As for partings and reunions, joys and sorrows, rises and falls, I have followed the traces closely, not daring to add the slightest embellishment, lest I merely please the eye and lose the true transmission. People today—the poor are burdened daily by food and clothing, and the rich harbor discontent; even when they have a moment of leisure, they are occupied with lust, greed, and the pursuit of pleasure. Where would they find time to read books on governance? Therefore, I do not wish the world to marvel at this story as extraordinary, nor do I insist that people delight in reading it. I only hope that when they are drunk, sated, and lying idle, or when they seek to escape the world and dispel their worries, they might play with this a while—would that not save some of their life and strength? Compared with scheming after vanity and chasing illusions, it would also spare them the harm of gossip and contention, and the toil of running about. Moreover, it will open the world\'s eyes anew, unlike those old manuscripts full of random fabrications, sudden partings and meetings, and pages of gifted scholars and fair ladies—Zijian, Wenjun, Hongniang, Xiaoyu—all the same stale conventions. What does my Master think of this?"</string>
    <!--clif:source: 空空道人听如此說，思忖半晌，將《石頭記》再檢閱一遍，因見上面雖 有些指奸責佞貶惡誅邪之語，亦非傷時罵世之旨，及至君仁臣良父慈子孝， 凡倫常所關之處，皆是稱功頌德，眷眷無窮，實非別書之可比．雖其中大旨 談論，亦不過實錄其事，又非假擬妄稱，一味淫邀艷約，私訂偷盟之可比． 因毫不干涉時世，方從頭至尾抄錄回來，問世傳奇．從此空空道人因空見色 ，由色生情，傳情入色，自色悟空，遂易名為情僧，改《石頭記》為《情僧 錄》．東魯孔梅溪則題曰《風月寶鑒》．后因曹雪芹于悼紅軒中披閱十載， 增刪五次，纂成目錄，分出章回，則題曰《金陵十二釵》．并題一絕云：-->
    <string name="chapter-1-005">When the Taoist Vanitas heard this, he pondered for a long while, then examined The Story of the Stone once more. Though he found in it some words condemning treachery and villainy, censuring evil and punishing wickedness, it was not the intent to attack the times or revile the world. Wherever it touched upon the bonds of human relations—the benevolence of rulers, the loyalty of ministers, the kindness of fathers, the filial piety of sons—it praised virtue and extolled goodness with endless affection, truly incomparable to other books. Though its main themes were discussed, it was merely a faithful record of events, not like those works of false invention and reckless claims, full of licentious trysts and secret assignations. Since it in no way interfered with the affairs of the age, he copied it out from beginning to end and brought it to the world as a tale of wonder. From then on, the Taoist Vanitas, seeing form through emptiness, generating feeling from form, transmitting feeling into form, and from form awakening to emptiness, changed his name to the Monk of Passion and renamed The Story of the Stone as The Record of the Monk of Passion. Kong Meixi of eastern Lu titled it The Precious Mirror of Romance. Later, Cao Xueqin, having read and revised it for ten years in his Mourning Red Studio, adding and deleting five times, compiled the table of contents and divided it into chapters, titled it The Twelve Beauties of Jinling. He also inscribed a quatrain:</string>
    <!--clif:source: 當日地陷東南，這東南一隅有處曰姑蘇，有城曰閶門者，最是紅塵中一 二等富貴風流之地．這閶門外有個十里街，街內有個仁清巷，巷內有個古廟 ，因地方窄狹，人皆呼作葫蘆廟．廟旁住著一家鄉宦，姓甄，名費，字士隱 ．嫡妻封氏，情性賢淑，深明禮義．家中雖不甚富貴，然本地便也推他為望 族了．因這甄士隱稟性恬淡，不以功名為念，每日只以觀花修竹，酌酒吟詩 為樂，倒是神仙一流人品．只是一件不足：如今年已半百，膝下無儿，只有 一女，乳名喚作英蓮，年方三歲．-->
    <string name="chapter-1-006">In those days, when the earth tilted to the southeast, there was in that southeastern corner a place called Gusu, with a city gate named Changmen, which was among the foremost places of wealth and elegance in the mortal world. Outside this Changmen gate there was a Ten Mile Street, and within the street a Lane of Benevolent Purity, and within the lane an ancient temple. Because the place was narrow and cramped, everyone called it Gourd Temple. Beside the temple lived a local official of some standing, surnamed Zhen, named Fei, with the courtesy name Shiyin. His lawful wife, née Feng, was virtuous and gentle, deeply versed in propriety and righteousness. Though the family was not exceedingly wealthy, they were regarded locally as a distinguished clan. Because Zhen Shiyin was by nature tranquil and indifferent, unconcerned with fame and rank, he spent his days delighting in viewing flowers, tending bamboo, drinking wine, and composing poetry—truly a man of immortal caliber. There was but one deficiency: though he was now past fifty, he had no son, only a daughter, whose milk name was Yinglian, just three years old.</string>
    <!--clif:source: 一日，炎夏永晝，士隱于書房閒坐，至手倦拋書，伏几少憩，不覺朦朧 睡去．夢至一處，不辨是何地方．忽見那廂來了一僧一道，且行且談．只听 道人問道：“你攜了這蠢物，意欲何往？"那僧笑道：“你放心，如今現有 一段風流公案正該了結，這一干風流冤家，尚未投胎入世．趁此机會，就將 此蠢物夾帶于中，使他去經歷經歷。”那道人道：“原來近日風流冤孽又將 造劫歷世去不成？但不知落于何方何處？"那僧笑道：“此事說來好笑，竟 是千古未聞的罕事．只因西方靈河岸上三生石畔，有絳珠草一株，時有赤瑕 宮神瑛侍者，日以甘露灌溉，這絳珠草始得久延歲月．后來既受天地精華， 复得雨露滋養，遂得脫卻草胎木質，得換人形，僅修成個女体，終日游于离 恨天外，饑則食蜜青果為膳，渴則飲灌愁海水為湯．只因尚未酬報灌溉之德 ，故其五內便郁結著一段纏綿不盡之意．恰近日這神瑛侍者凡心偶熾，乘此 昌明太平朝世，意欲下凡造歷幻緣，已在警幻仙子案前挂了號．警幻亦曾問 及，灌溉之情未償，趁此倒可了結的．那絳珠仙子道：`他是甘露之惠，我 并無此水可還．他既下世為人，我也去下世為人，但把我一生所有的眼淚還 他，也償還得過他了．'因此一事，就勾出多少風流冤家來，陪他們去了結 此案。”那道人道：“果是罕聞．實未聞有還淚之說．想來這一段故事，比 歷來風月事故更加瑣碎細膩了。”那僧道：“歷來几個風流人物，不過傳其 大概以及詩詞篇章而已，至家庭閨閣中一飲一食，總未述記．再者，大半風 月故事，不過偷香竊玉，暗約私奔而已，并不曾將儿女之真情發泄一二．想 這一干人入世，其情痴色鬼，賢愚不肖者，悉与前人傳述不同矣。”那道人 道：“趁此何不你我也去下世度脫几個，豈不是一場功德？"那僧道：“正 合吾意，你且同我到警幻仙子宮中，將蠢物交割清楚，待這一干風流孽鬼下 世已完，你我再去．如今雖已有一半落塵，然猶未全集。”道人道：“既如 此，便隨你去來。”-->
    <string name="chapter-1-007">One day, during the long heat of summer, Shiyin sat idly in his study. When his hand grew weary, he set down his book and rested his head on the desk for a brief nap, and unknowingly fell into a hazy sleep. In his dream he came to a place he could not recognize. Suddenly he saw a monk and a Taoist approaching from the other side, walking and talking. He heard the Taoist ask: "You carry this foolish thing—where do you intend to take it?" The monk smiled and said: "Set your mind at ease. There is now a romantic case that ought to be concluded. These romantic debtors have not yet been reborn into the world. Taking this opportunity, I will slip this foolish thing in among them, so that it may experience what it must." The Taoist said: "So the romantic sinners of recent times are to create calamities and pass through the world again? But I wonder where they will fall?" The monk smiled and said: "This matter is amusing to tell—indeed, a rare thing unheard of in a thousand ages. It is only because on the bank of the Spirit River in the west, beside the Stone of Three Lives, there grew a single Crimson Pearl Plant. At that time, the Divine Attendant in the Palace of Red Sunlight daily watered it with sweet dew, and so the plant was able to prolong its days. Later, having received the essence of heaven and earth and nourished by rain and dew, it shed its grassy form and took on human shape, cultivating only a female body. She spent her days roaming beyond the Heaven of Parting Sorrows, eating the fruit of honey-green when hungry and drinking the water of the Sea of Sorrows when thirsty. Because she had not yet repaid the kindness of the watering, her five organs were knotted with an endless, lingering feeling. Just recently, the Divine Attendant\'s mortal heart happened to blaze with desire, and seizing this bright and peaceful age, he wished to descend to the mortal world to experience the illusion of fate. He had already registered his name before the desk of the Fairy of Dream Warnings. The fairy had also asked about it, noting that the debt of watering had not been repaid, and this was a good opportunity to settle it. The Crimson Pearl Fairy said: \'He gave me the grace of sweet dew, and I have no such water to repay him with. Since he is going down to be human, I too will go down to be human. I will repay him with all the tears of my lifetime—that should be enough to settle the debt.\' Because of this one matter, many romantic debtors were drawn out to accompany them in concluding this case." The Taoist said: "Truly rare to hear. I have never heard of repaying with tears. It seems this story will be even more intricate and delicate than past romantic tales." The monk said: "The romantic figures of the past have only been transmitted in broad outline, along with their poems and writings; the daily meals and drinks of the inner chambers were never recorded. Moreover, most romantic tales are merely about stealing fragrance and pilfering jade, secret trysts and elopements, without ever revealing a fraction of the true feelings of young men and women. I think when this group enters the world, their infatuations, lusts, wisdom, folly, and unworthiness will all differ from what earlier writers have transmitted." The Taoist said: "Why not take this opportunity for us to go down to the world and deliver a few souls? Would that not be a meritorious deed?" The monk said: "Exactly my thought. Come with me to the palace of the Fairy of Dream Warnings, hand over this foolish thing properly, and after this group of romantic ghosts has descended to the world, we will go. Though half have already fallen into the dust, they are not yet all gathered." The Taoist said: "If so, I will follow you."</string>
    <!--clif:source: 卻說甄士隱俱听得明白，但不知所云"蠢物"系何東西．遂不禁上前施禮 ，笑問道：“二仙師請了。”那僧道也忙答禮相問．士隱因說道：“适聞仙 師所談因果，實人世罕聞者．但弟子愚濁，不能洞悉明白，若蒙大開痴頑， 備細一聞，弟子則洗耳諦听，稍能警省，亦可免沉倫之苦。”二仙笑道：“ 此乃玄机不可預泄者．到那時不要忘我二人，便可跳出火坑矣。”士隱听了 ，不便再問．因笑道：“玄机不可預泄，但适云`蠢物'，不知為何，或可一 見否？"那僧道：“若問此物，倒有一面之緣。”說著，取出遞与士隱．士 隱接了看時，原來是塊鮮明美玉，上面字跡分明，鐫著"通靈寶玉"四字，后 面還有几行小字．正欲細看時，那僧便說已到幻境，便強從手中奪了去，与 道人竟過一大石牌坊，上書四個大字，乃是"太虛幻境"．兩邊又有一幅對聯 ，道是：-->
    <string name="chapter-1-008">Now Zhen Shiyin understood all that was said, but did not know what "foolish thing" meant. Unable to restrain himself, he stepped forward, made a bow, and asked with a smile: "Greetings to the two immortals." The monk and Taoist hurriedly returned the salute and inquired in turn. Shiyin then said: "Just now I heard the immortals discussing karma—truly something rarely heard in the human world. But your disciple is foolish and dull, unable to comprehend it fully. If I might be so bold as to ask you to enlighten my ignorance and explain in detail, your disciple would listen with washed ears, and if I could be somewhat awakened, I might escape the suffering of sinking into the mire." The two immortals smiled and said: "This is a profound mystery that cannot be revealed beforehand. When the time comes, do not forget us two, and you will be able to leap out of the fiery pit." Shiyin heard this and did not press further. He smiled and said: "The profound mystery cannot be revealed, but you just mentioned a \'foolish thing\'—I wonder what it is. Might I be permitted to see it?" The monk said: "As for this thing, you do have a one-sided fate with it." So saying, he took it out and handed it to Shiyin. Shiyin received it and looked—it was a bright and beautiful jade, with clear inscriptions on it, carved with the four characters "Spiritual Understanding Jade," and behind it several lines of small script. Just as he was about to examine it closely, the monk said they had arrived at the realm of illusion, and forcibly snatched it from his hand. With the Taoist, he passed through a great stone archway, on which were written four large characters: "The Illusory Realm of Great Void." On either side was a couplet, which read:</string>
    <!--clif:source: 這士隱正痴想，忽見隔壁葫蘆廟內寄居的一個窮儒-姓賈名化，表字時 飛，別號雨行者走了出來．這賈雨村原系胡州人氏，也是詩書仕宦之族，因 他生于末世，父母祖宗根基已盡，人口衰喪，只剩得他一身一口，在家鄉無 益，因進京求取功名，再整基業．自前歲來此，又淹蹇住了，暫寄廟中安身 ，每日賣字作文為生，故士隱常与他交接．當下雨村見了士隱，忙施禮陪笑 道：“老先生倚門佇望，敢是街市上有甚新聞否？"士隱笑道：“非也．适 因小女啼哭，引他出來作耍，正是無聊之甚，兄來得正妙，請入小齋一談， 彼此皆可消此永晝。”說著，便令人送女儿進去，自与雨村攜手來至書房中 ．小童獻茶．方談得三五句話，忽家人飛報：“嚴老爺來拜。”士隱慌的忙 起身謝罪道：“恕誑駕之罪，略坐，弟即來陪。”雨村忙起身亦讓道：“老 先生請便．晚生乃常造之客，稍候何妨。”說著，士隱已出前廳去了．-->
    <string name="chapter-1-009">As Shiyin was lost in thought, he suddenly saw a poor scholar lodging in the neighboring Gourd Temple come out—surnamed Jia, named Hua, with the courtesy name Shifei and the sobriquet Yuxing. This Jia Yucun was originally from Huzhou, from a family of scholars and officials. But because he was born in the twilight of his family\'s fortunes, his parents\' and ancestors\' foundations were exhausted, and his family had dwindled until only he remained, alone and single. With no prospects in his hometown, he had come to the capital to seek fame and rank, hoping to rebuild his fortunes. Since arriving the previous year, he had been delayed and detained, lodging temporarily in the temple, making a living by selling his calligraphy and composing essays. Thus Shiyin often associated with him. When Yucun saw Shiyin, he hurriedly bowed and said with a smile: "Old sir, you stand at the gate gazing—could there be some news in the streets?" Shiyin smiled and said: "No. It is only because my little daughter was crying that I brought her out to play. I was feeling quite bored, and your arrival is most opportune. Please come into my humble study for a chat, and we can while away this long day together." So saying, he had someone take his daughter inside, and himself took Yucun by the hand and led him to the study. A young servant served tea. They had only exchanged a few sentences when a servant rushed in to report: "Master Yan has come to pay a call." Shiyin hurriedly rose and apologized: "Forgive me for the offense of detaining you. Please sit a while; I will return shortly to keep you company." Yucun also rose and yielded: "Old sir, please go ahead. I am a frequent visitor; what harm is there in waiting a while?" As he spoke, Shiyin had already gone out to the front hall.</string>
    <!--clif:source: 一日，早又中秋佳節．士隱家宴已畢，乃又另具一席于書房，卻自己步 月至廟中來邀雨村．原來雨村自那日見了甄家之婢曾回顧他兩次，自為是個 知己，便時刻放在心上．今又正值中秋，不免對月有怀，因而口占五言一律 云：-->
    <string name="chapter-1-010">One day, the Mid-Autumn Festival came around again. After the family banquet at Shiyin\'s house was finished, he prepared another feast in his study, and himself walked by moonlight to the temple to invite Yucun. It turned out that since the day Yucun had seen the maid of the Zhen household glance back at him twice, he had taken her for a kindred spirit and kept her constantly in his heart. Now, at Mid-Autumn, he could not help but feel nostalgic gazing at the moon, and so he composed a pentasyllabic poem on the spot:</string>
    <!--clif:source: 蟾光如有意，先上玉人樓．雨村吟罷，因又思及平生抱負，苦未逢時， 乃又搔首對天長歎，复高吟一聯曰：-->
    <string name="chapter-1-011">The toad\'s light, as if with intent, first climbs the tower of the fair one. After Yucun finished reciting, he thought again of his lifelong ambitions, bitterly regretting that he had not met his time. He scratched his head and sighed to the sky, then recited aloud another couplet:</string>
    <!--clif:source: 可巧這日拄了拐杖掙挫到街前散散心時，忽見那邊來了一個跛足道人， 瘋癲落脫，麻屣鶉衣，口內念著几句言詞，道是：-->
    <string name="chapter-1-012">It happened that on this day, leaning on his staff and struggling to the front of the street to divert his mind, he suddenly saw a lame Taoist approaching from the other side, wild and disheveled, wearing hempen sandals and tattered clothes, muttering a few phrases to himself, which went:</string>
    <!--clif:source: 痴心父母古來多，孝順儿孫誰見了？士隱听了，便迎上來道：“你滿口 說些什么？只听見些`好'`了'`好'`了'．那道人笑道：“你若果听見`好'` 了'二字，還算你明白．可知世上万般，好便是了，了便是好．若不了，便 不好，若要好，須是了．我這歌儿，便名《好了歌》"士隱本是有宿慧的， 一聞此言，心中早已徹悟．因笑道：“且住！待我將你這《好了歌》解注出 來何如？"道人笑道：“你解，你解。”士隱乃說道：-->
    <string name="chapter-1-013">Foolish-hearted parents have been many since ancient times; who has ever seen filial sons and grandsons? Shiyin heard this and came forward, saying: "What are you muttering about? I only hear \'good\' and \'done,\' \'good\' and \'done.\'" The Taoist smiled and said: "If you truly hear the words \'good\' and \'done,\' then you may be considered understanding. Know that in all things in this world, good is done, and done is good. If not done, then not good; if one wishes good, one must be done. This song of mine is called the \'Song of Good and Done.\'" Shiyin, being endowed with innate wisdom, was already thoroughly enlightened in his heart upon hearing these words. He smiled and said: "Wait! Let me annotate your \'Song of Good and Done\'—how about that?" The Taoist smiled and said: "Annotate it, annotate it." Shiyin then said:</string>
    <!--clif:source: 陋室空堂，當年笏滿床，衰草枯楊，曾為歌舞場．蛛絲儿結滿雕梁，綠 紗今又糊在蓬窗上．說什么脂正濃，粉正香，如何兩鬢又成霜？昨日黃土隴 頭送白骨，今宵紅燈帳底臥鴛鴦．金滿箱，銀滿箱，展眼乞丐人皆謗．正歎 他人命不長，那知自己歸來喪！訓有方，保不定日后作強梁．擇膏粱，誰承 望流落在煙花巷！因嫌紗帽小，致使鎖枷杠，昨怜破襖寒，今嫌紫蟒長：亂 烘烘你方唱罷我登場，反認他鄉是故鄉．甚荒唐，到頭來都是為他人作嫁衣 裳！那瘋跛道人听了，拍掌笑道：“解得切，解得切！"士隱便說一聲"走罷 ！"將道人肩上褡褳搶了過來背著，竟不回家，同了瘋道人飄飄而去．當下 烘動街坊，眾人當作一件新聞傳說．封氏聞得此信，哭個死去活來，只得与 父親商議，遣人各處訪尋，那討音信？無奈何，少不得依靠著他父母度日． 幸而身邊還有兩個舊日的丫鬟伏侍，主仆三人，日夜作些針線發賣，幫著父 親用度．那封肅雖然日日抱怨，也無可奈何了．-->
    <string name="chapter-1-014">A mean hut and empty hall, where once the tablets of office filled the bed; withered grass and dried willows, where once was a place of song and dance. Spider webs now drape the carved beams; green gauze is pasted again on the wicker window. What talk of rouge being thick, of powder being fragrant—how is it that both temples have turned to frost? Yesterday, at the head of the yellow-earth mound, white bones were sent off; tonight, beneath the red-lamp canopy, mandarin ducks lie together. Chests full of gold, chests full of silver—in the blink of an eye, a beggar, and all men revile him. Just as one laments that another\'s life is short, who knows that one\'s own return will bring death! To teach with discipline does not guarantee that one will not become a brigand in the future. To choose a fine match—who would have expected one to fall into the alley of painted ladies! Because one grudged the smallness of the gauze cap, one came to bear the cangue and chains; yesterday one pitied the cold of a tattered coat, today one dislikes the length of the purple robe: in the hubbub, you finish your song and I take the stage, mistaking a foreign land for home. How absurd—in the end, all are sewing wedding clothes for others! When the mad lame Taoist heard this, he clapped his hands and laughed, saying: "Well annotated, well annotated!" Shiyin then said, "Let us go!" and snatched the cloth sack from the Taoist\'s shoulder, slung it on his own back, and without returning home, drifted away with the mad Taoist. This stirred up the neighborhood, and people spread it as a piece of news. When Lady Feng heard of this, she wept as if dead, and could only consult with her father, sending people to search everywhere—but what news could be found? Helpless, she had no choice but to depend on her parents for her daily needs. Fortunately, she still had two old maidservants to attend her, and the three of them, mistress and maids, worked day and night at needlework to sell, helping her father with expenses. Though Feng Su complained daily, there was nothing he could do.</string>
</resources>