{
  "chapter-1": {
    "chapter-1-001": "This is the opening chapter of the book. The author says: Having once passed through a dream-like experience, he concealed the true events and, borrowing the tale of the \"Spiritual Stone,\" wrote this book, The Story of the Stone. Hence the name \"Zhen Shiyin\" and so forth. But what events and what people are recorded in this book? He further says: \"Now, busy and bustling in the dusty world, having accomplished nothing, I suddenly thought of all the women of those days. Examining them one by one in detail, I found their conduct and insight all surpassed mine. How is it that I, a dignified man, am truly inferior to those women? Indeed, shame is more than enough, regret is useless, and it is a time of utter helplessness! At this point, I wished to compile a collection of my past reliance on heavenly grace and ancestral virtue, the days of brocade clothes and fine silk, the times of feasting on delicacies, the kindness of my father and elder brother's education, the virtue of my teachers and friends' admonitions, and my failure to achieve any skill, my half-life of destitution—all these faults, to tell the world: my guilt is unavoidable, but among the women's quarters there were indeed remarkable people, and I must not, because of my own unworthiness and self-protection of my shortcomings, let them be obliterated as well. Although today I live in a thatched hut with a wicker door, a clay stove and a rope bed, the morning and evening wind and dew, the willows and flowers in the courtyard, do not hinder my feelings and my pen. Although I am unlearned and my writing lacks literary grace, what harm is there in using rustic language and village talk to spin out a tale, so that the women's quarters may be made known, and also delight the eyes of the world and dispel people's sorrows? Is that not fitting?\" Hence the name \"Jia Yucun\" and so forth.",
    "chapter-1-002": "In this chapter, the frequent use of words like \"dream\" and \"illusion\" is to alert the reader's eyes, and it is also the fundamental intent of this book.",
    "chapter-1-003": "It is said that when the goddess Nüwa was repairing the sky, she refined, at the Great Waste Mountain and the Cliff of No Name, a stone thirty-six thousand five hundred and one blocks, each twelve zhang high and twenty-four zhang square. The goddess used only thirty-six thousand five hundred blocks, leaving a single block unused, which she discarded at the foot of Green Ridge Peak on this mountain. Who would have thought that after this stone had been refined, it became endowed with spiritual intelligence. Seeing that all the other stones had been used to repair the sky, and that it alone was unworthy for selection, it began to lament and sigh, weeping day and night in shame.",
    "chapter-1-004": "The Daoist Kongkong then said to the stone: \"Brother Stone, this story of yours, according to what you yourself say, has some interest, so you have written it here, intending to offer it to the world as a tale. In my view, first, there is no dynasty or era to verify; second, there are no great sages or loyal ministers who governed the court or reformed customs. It only contains a few extraordinary women, some amorous, some infatuated, some with minor talents and slight virtues, but none with the virtue and ability of Ban Zhao or Cai Wenji. Even if I copy it, I fear the world will not care to read it.\" The stone laughed and replied: \"Master, why are you so foolish! If you say there is no dynasty to verify, what difficulty is there for you, Master, to borrow the reigns of the Han or Tang dynasties and add them? But I think that all historical romances of the past have followed the same pattern; it is better that mine does not follow this convention, and is instead novel and unique. I only take the truth of events and human feelings; why must I be bound by dynasty and era! Furthermore, among the common people, few enjoy reading books on governance, but many love leisurely and amusing writings. In all the unofficial histories of the past, some slander rulers and ministers, some defame men's wives and daughters, and the tales of lewdness, violence, and evil are countless. There is also a kind of romantic writing, filthy and foul, poisoning the pen and corrupting the young, which is also countless. As for books about talented scholars and beautiful ladies, a thousand volumes all come from the same mold, and they inevitably fall into licentiousness, filling the pages with Pan An, Zi Jian, Xi Shi, and Wenjun—merely because the author wants to write his own love poems and rhapsodies, so he invents the names of a man and a woman, and must also bring in a minor villain to stir up trouble, like a clown in a play. Moreover, the maidservants speak in classical phrases, always 'ye' and 'zhi hu zhe ye,' nothing but literary and moral talk. Thus, reading them one by one, they are all self-contradictory and far from human reason. They are not as good as these few women I have personally seen and heard in my half-life. Though I dare not say they surpass the characters in previous books, the details of their deeds can dispel sorrow and relieve boredom, and there are a few clumsy poems and familiar sayings that can provoke laughter and accompany wine. As for partings and reunions, joys and sorrows, rises and falls, I have followed the traces closely, not daring to add the slightest fabrication, merely to please the eye and lose the true transmission. People today—the poor are burdened daily by food and clothing, the rich harbor discontent, and even if they have a moment of leisure, they are occupied with lust, greed, and seeking worries. Where would they find time to read books on governance? Therefore, I do not wish the world to marvel at this story of mine, nor do I insist that people delight in reading it. I only hope that when they are drunk, lustful, and satiated, or when they seek to escape the world and dispel sorrow, they might play with it, and would it not save some of their life and strength? Compared to pursuing vanity and chasing illusions, it would also save them from the harm of gossip and the toil of running about. Moreover, it will let the world see with fresh eyes, unlike those old manuscripts full of forced connections, sudden partings and meetings, pages filled with talented scholars and fair ladies, Zi Jian, Wenjun, Hongniang, Xiaoyu, and all the familiar clichés. What does my master think?\"",
    "chapter-1-005": "The Daoist Kongkong, hearing this, pondered for a while and examined The Story of the Stone once more. Seeing that although it contained some words accusing the treacherous and blaming the wicked, it was not intended to criticize the times or curse the world; and wherever it touched on the ruler's benevolence, the minister's loyalty, the father's kindness, and the son's filial piety—all matters of human relations—it praised virtue and extolled merit with endless affection, truly incomparable to other books. Although its main theme was discussion, it was but a record of actual events, not like those books of fabricated claims and wanton assignations, secret engagements, and clandestine vows. Since it did not interfere with the times at all, he copied it from beginning to end and brought it to the world as a tale. From then on, the Daoist Kongkong, seeing form from emptiness, generating feeling from form, transmitting feeling into form, and from form awakening to emptiness, changed his name to the Passionate Monk and changed The Story of the Stone to The Record of the Passionate Monk. Kong Meixi of Donglu titled it The Precious Mirror of Wind and Moon. Later, Cao Xueqin, in his Mourning Red Studio, perused it for ten years, revised it five times, compiled the table of contents, and divided it into chapters, titling it The Twelve Beauties of Jinling. He also wrote a quatrain:",
    "chapter-1-006": "In those days, when the earth tilted to the southeast, in that southeastern corner there was a place called Gusu, and within it a city called Changmen, which was one of the foremost places of wealth and romance in the mortal world. Outside Changmen there was a Ten-Mile Street, and in the street there was a Renqing Lane, and in the lane there was an old temple. Because the place was narrow, people called it Gourd Temple. Beside the temple lived a local official family, surnamed Zhen, named Fei, with the courtesy name Shiyin. His wife, née Feng, was virtuous and gentle, deeply versed in propriety and righteousness. Although the family was not very wealthy, they were considered a prominent clan in the area. Because Zhen Shiyin was of a tranquil disposition, not concerned with fame and rank, he spent his days enjoying flowers, tending bamboo, drinking wine, and composing poems—truly a transcendent being. There was only one shortcoming: he was already half a century old, with no son, only a daughter, whose milk name was Yinglian, just three years old.",
    "chapter-1-007": "One day, in the long summer daylight, Shiyin sat idly in his study. When his hand grew weary of the book, he put it down and rested on the desk, and before he knew it, he fell into a hazy sleep. He dreamed he was in a place he could not recognize. Suddenly he saw a monk and a Daoist coming from that direction, walking and talking. He heard the Daoist ask: \"Where do you intend to take this stupid thing?\" The monk smiled and said: \"Rest assured. Now there is a romantic case that should be settled. These romantic debtors have not yet been reborn into the world. Taking this opportunity, I will carry this stupid thing along with them, so that it may experience things.\" The Daoist said: \"So the romantic sinners of recent times are about to create calamities and go through the world again? But I wonder where they will fall?\" The monk smiled and said: \"This matter is laughable to tell—it is a rare thing unheard of for a thousand years. It is only because on the bank of the Spirit River in the West, by the Stone of Three Lives, there is a Vermilion Pearl Plant. At that time, the attendant Shenying of the Palace of Red Sunlight watered it daily with sweet dew, and only thus did the plant survive for long years. Later, having received the essence of heaven and earth and nourished by rain and dew, it shed its plant form and took human shape, cultivating only a female body. She roamed all day beyond the Heaven of Resentment, eating honey-green fruit when hungry and drinking the water of the Sea of Sorrow when thirsty. Because she had not yet repaid the kindness of watering, her heart was knotted with an endless, lingering feeling. Just recently, the attendant Shenying happened to be stirred by mortal desires, and taking advantage of this prosperous and peaceful age, he wished to descend to the world to experience the fate of illusion. He had already registered before the Fairy of Illusion. The fairy also asked about the unrequited kindness of watering, and said this was an opportunity to settle it. The Vermilion Pearl Fairy said: 'He gave me the grace of sweet dew, and I have no such water to repay. Since he is going down to the world as a human, I will also go down as a human, and I will repay him with all the tears of my life—that should be enough to repay him.' Because of this matter, many romantic debtors were drawn out to accompany them in settling this case.\" The Daoist said: \"Truly rare to hear. I have never heard of repaying with tears. It seems this story will be even more trivial and delicate than past romantic tales.\" The monk said: \"In the past, romantic figures were only transmitted in broad outline, along with their poems and writings; but the daily meals and drinks of the women's quarters were never recorded. Moreover, most romantic stories are only about stealing fragrance and jade, secret meetings and elopements, without ever revealing a fraction of the true feelings of young men and women. I think when this group enters the world, their infatuation, lust, wisdom, folly, and unworthiness will all be different from what previous generations have transmitted.\" The Daoist said: \"Why not take this opportunity for us to go down to the world and save a few? Would that not be a merit?\" The monk said: \"Exactly my thought. Come with me to the palace of the Fairy of Illusion, hand over this stupid thing clearly, and after this group of romantic ghosts has descended into the world, you and I will go. Although half have already fallen into the dust, they are not yet all gathered.\" The Daoist said: \"If so, I will go with you.\"",
    "chapter-1-008": "Now Zhen Shiyin understood it all clearly, but he did not know what the \"stupid thing\" was. He could not help stepping forward, bowing, and asking with a smile: \"Greetings, two immortals.\" The monk and the Daoist hurriedly returned the greeting and asked. Shiyin then said: \"Just now I heard the immortals discussing cause and effect, which is truly rare in the human world. But I, your disciple, am dull and turbid, unable to comprehend it fully. If you would be so kind as to enlighten my foolishness and tell me in detail, I will wash my ears and listen attentively. If I can be a little awakened, I may also escape the suffering of sinking.\" The two immortals laughed and said: \"This is a profound mystery that cannot be revealed in advance. When the time comes, do not forget us two, and you will be able to leap out of the pit of fire.\" Shiyin heard this and did not dare ask further. He smiled and said: \"The profound mystery cannot be revealed in advance, but just now you mentioned a 'stupid thing.' I wonder what it is—might I see it?\" The monk said: \"If you ask about this thing, there is indeed a chance to see it once.\" So saying, he took it out and handed it to Shiyin. Shiyin took it and looked: it was a bright, beautiful jade, with clear characters engraved on it, reading \"Spiritual Jade\" in four characters, and behind it several lines of small characters. Just as he was about to examine it closely, the monk said they had arrived at the illusion, and forcibly snatched it from his hand. He and the Daoist passed through a great stone archway, on which were written four large characters: \"The Illusory Realm of Great Void.\" On both sides there was also a couplet, which read:",
    "chapter-1-009": "As Shiyin was lost in thought, he suddenly saw a poor scholar lodging in the neighboring Gourd Temple—surnamed Jia, named Hua, with the courtesy name Shifei and the sobriquet Yuxing—come out. This Jia Yucun was originally from Huzhou, also from a family of scholars and officials. Because he was born in the last days of his family, his parents' and ancestors' foundations were exhausted, and his kin had dwindled, leaving only himself alone. Since his hometown was of no benefit, he came to the capital to seek fame and rank, to rebuild his fortunes. Since coming here the year before, he had been delayed and lodged temporarily in the temple, making a living by selling calligraphy and writing essays. Thus Shiyin often associated with him. When Yucun saw Shiyin, he hurriedly bowed and said with a smile: \"Old sir, you stand at the door gazing—could there be some news in the street?\" Shiyin smiled and said: \"No. It was because my little daughter was crying that I brought her out to play. I was just feeling extremely bored; your arrival is most opportune. Please come into my humble study for a talk, and we can both while away this long day.\" So saying, he had someone take the daughter inside, and he himself walked hand in hand with Yucun to the study. A young servant offered tea. They had only exchanged a few sentences when a servant flew in to report: \"Master Yan has come to pay a visit.\" Shiyin hurriedly rose and apologized: \"Forgive me for the offense of leaving you. Please sit a while; I will come to accompany you shortly.\" Yucun also rose and yielded: \"Old sir, please go ahead. I am a frequent guest; what harm is there in waiting a little?\" As he spoke, Shiyin had already gone out to the front hall.",
    "chapter-1-010": "One day, it was again the Mid-Autumn Festival. After the family banquet was over, Shiyin prepared another feast in the study, and he himself walked by moonlight to the temple to invite Yucun. It turned out that since that day when Yucun had seen the maid of the Zhen family glance back at him twice, he had taken her for a kindred spirit and kept her constantly in his heart. Now it was Mid-Autumn again, and he could not help feeling nostalgic before the moon, so he composed a pentasyllabic poem on the spot:",
    "chapter-1-011": "If the moonlight has a mind, it first shines on the lady's tower. After reciting this, Yucun thought again of his lifelong ambitions, which had not yet met their time. He scratched his head and sighed at the sky, then recited a couplet aloud:",
    "chapter-1-012": "It happened that on this day, leaning on his cane, he struggled to the street to ease his mind, when he saw a lame Daoist coming from the other direction, wild and disheveled, with hemp sandals and patched clothes, muttering some words, which were:",
    "chapter-1-013": "Foolish parents have been many since ancient times; filial sons and grandsons—who has seen them? Shiyin heard this and came forward, saying: \"What are you muttering? I only hear 'good' and 'done,' 'good' and 'done.'\" The Daoist smiled and said: \"If you truly hear the words 'good' and 'done,' you may be considered understanding. Know that in all the world, good is done, and done is good. If not done, then not good; if you want good, you must be done. This song of mine is called 'The Song of the Good and Done.'\" Shiyin, who was endowed with innate wisdom, had already been thoroughly enlightened in his heart upon hearing these words. He smiled and said: \"Wait! Let me annotate your 'Song of the Good and Done'—how about that?\" The Daoist smiled and said: \"Annotate it, annotate it.\" Shiyin then said:",
    "chapter-1-014": "A mean hut and empty hall, once a bed full of tablets; withered grass and dry willows, once a place of song and dance. Spider webs knot the carved beams; green gauze now pastes the wicker window. What talk of rouge being thick, powder being fragrant—how have both temples turned to frost? Yesterday, white bones were sent to the yellow mound; tonight, under the red lantern, mandarin ducks lie in bed. Gold fills the chest, silver fills the chest; in the blink of an eye, beggars are slandered by all. Just as you sigh that others' lives are short, you do not know that your own return brings death! To teach with discipline does not guarantee that later one will not become a robber. To choose a fine match, who would expect to end up in a brothel! Because you resent the small gauze cap, you end up bearing the cangue; yesterday you pitied the tattered coat's cold, today you resent the purple robe's length: in the chaos, you sing your part and I take the stage, mistaking a foreign land for home. How absurd—in the end, all are making wedding clothes for others! The mad lame Daoist heard this, clapped his hands, and laughed: \"Well annotated, well annotated!\" Shiyin then said, \"Let's go!\" He snatched the cloth bag from the Daoist's shoulder and carried it on his own back, and without returning home, he drifted away with the mad Daoist. This stirred up the neighborhood, and people spread it as news. When Fengshi heard of this, she wept as if dead, and could only discuss with her father, sending people to search everywhere, but no news was found. Helpless, she had to rely on her parents for support. Fortunately, she still had two old maidservants by her side. The three of them, mistress and maids, worked day and night at needlework to sell, helping with her father's expenses. Although Feng Su complained daily, he could do nothing about it."
  }
}