{
  "chapter-1": {
    "chapter-1-001": "This is the opening chapter of the book. The author says: Having once passed through a dream-like experience, he concealed the true events and, borrowing the tale of the 'Spiritual Stone,' wrote this book, The Story of the Stone. Hence the name 'Zhen Shiyin' and so forth. But what events and people does the book record? He further says: 'Now, busy and bustling in the world of wind and dust, having accomplished nothing, I suddenly thought of all the women of those days. Examining them one by one in detail, I found their conduct and insight all surpassed mine. How is it that I, a dignified man, am truly inferior to those women? Indeed, shame is more than enough, regret is useless, and it is a time of utter helplessness! At this point, I wished to compile a collection recounting my past reliance on heavenly grace and ancestral virtue, the days of brocade clothes and fine food, the times of sweet delicacies and rich fare, the kindness of my father and elder brother's education, the virtue of my teachers and friends' admonitions, and my failure to achieve any skill, my half-life of destitution—all to tell the world: my guilt is unavoidable, but among the women's quarters there were indeed remarkable people, and I must not, because of my own unworthiness and self-protection of my shortcomings, let them be obliterated. Though today I live in a thatched hut with a wicker door, a clay stove and a rope bed, the morning and evening wind and dew, the willows by the steps and flowers in the courtyard, do not hinder my feelings and my pen. Though I am unlearned and my writing lacks literary grace, what harm is there in using rustic language and village talk to spin out a tale, so that the women's quarters may be made known, and also delight the eyes of the world and dispel people's sorrows? Is that not fitting?' Hence the name 'Jia Yucun' and so forth.",
    "chapter-1-002": "In this chapter, the frequent use of words like 'dream' and 'illusion' is to alert the reader's eyes, and it is also the fundamental intent of this book.",
    "chapter-1-003": "Originally, when the goddess Nüwa was refining stones to repair the sky, at the Great Waste Mountain and the Cliff of No Boundaries, she refined a stone of twelve zhang in height and twenty-four zhang in width, totaling thirty-six thousand five hundred and one blocks. The goddess used only thirty-six thousand five hundred blocks, leaving a single block unused, which she discarded at the foot of Green Ridge Peak on this mountain. Who would have thought that after this stone had undergone refinement, it became spiritually aware. Seeing that all the other stones had been used to repair the sky, and that it alone was unworthy for selection due to lack of talent, it began to lament and sigh, crying day and night in shame and grief.",
    "chapter-1-004": "The Daoist Kongkong then said to the stone: 'Brother Stone, this story of yours, according to what you yourself say, has some interest, so you have written it here, intending to present it to the world as a tale. In my view, first, there is no dynasty or era to verify; second, there are no great sages or loyal ministers governing the court or improving customs. It only contains a few extraordinary women, some amorous, some infatuated, some with minor talents and slight virtues, but none with the virtue and ability of Ban Gu or Cai Wenji. Even if I copy it, I fear the world will not care to read it.' The stone laughed and replied: 'Master, why are you so foolish! If you say there is no dynasty to verify, what difficulty is there for you to borrow the eras of Han and Tang and add them? But I think that all historical romances have followed the same pattern; it is better that mine does not follow this convention, and instead is novel and unique, only taking the logic of events and human feelings. Why must it be bound by dynasty and era? Moreover, among the common people, few like books on governance, but many enjoy leisurely and amusing writings. Historical romances have either slandered rulers and ministers, or defamed people's wives and daughters, with lewdness and wickedness beyond count. There is also a kind of romantic writing, filthy and foul, poisoning the pen and corrupting the youth, also beyond count. As for books about talented scholars and beautiful ladies, a thousand volumes all come from the same mold, and they inevitably involve licentiousness, filling the pages with Pan An, Zi Jian, Xi Shi, and Wenjun—merely because the author wants to write his own love poems and rhapsodies, so he invents the names of a man and a woman, and must also bring in a minor villain to stir up trouble, like a clown in a play. Moreover, the maidservants speak in classical phrases, always 'ye' and 'zhi hu zhe ye,' nothing but literary and moral talk. So reading them one by one, they are all self-contradictory and far from reasonable. They are not as good as these few women I have personally seen and heard in my half-life. Though I dare not say they surpass the characters in previous books, the details of their deeds can dispel sorrow and relieve boredom, and there are a few clumsy poems and familiar sayings that can provoke laughter and accompany wine. As for partings and reunions, joys and sorrows, rises and falls, I have followed the traces closely, not daring to add any fabrication, merely to please the eye and lose the true transmission. People today—the poor are burdened daily by food and clothing, the rich harbor discontent, and even if they have a moment of leisure, they are occupied with lust, greed, and seeking worries. Where would they find time to read books on governance? Therefore, I do not wish the world to marvel at this story as extraordinary, nor do I insist that people delight in reading it. I only hope that when they are drunk, lustful, and satiated, or when they seek to escape the world and dispel sorrow, they might play with it, and would it not save some of their life and energy? Compared to chasing illusions and vain pursuits, it would also save them from the harm of gossip and the toil of running about. Moreover, it will let the world see with fresh eyes, unlike those old manuscripts full of forced connections, sudden partings and meetings, pages filled with talented scholars and fair ladies, Zi Jian, Wenjun, Hongniang, Xiaoyu, and all the familiar clichés. What does my master think?'",
    "chapter-1-005": "The Daoist Kongkong, hearing this, pondered for a while and examined The Story of the Stone once more. Seeing that although it contained some words accusing the treacherous and blaming the wicked, it was not intended to attack the times or curse the world; and wherever it touched on the ruler's benevolence, the minister's loyalty, the father's kindness, and the son's filial piety, it praised virtue and extolled merit with endless affection, truly incomparable to other books. Although its main theme was discussion, it was merely recording events truthfully, not like those books of fabricated claims and wanton assignations and secret pledges. Since it did not interfere with the times at all, he copied it from beginning to end and presented it to the world as a tale. From then on, the Daoist Kongkong, seeing form from emptiness, generating feeling from form, transmitting feeling into form, and from form realizing emptiness, changed his name to the Monk of Love and changed The Story of the Stone to The Record of the Monk of Love. Kong Meixi of Donglu titled it The Precious Mirror of Wind and Moon. Later, Cao Xueqin, in his Mourning Red Studio, perused it for ten years, revised it five times, compiled a table of contents, and divided it into chapters, titling it The Twelve Beauties of Jinling. He also wrote a quatrain:",
    "chapter-1-006": "On that day, when the earth tilted to the southeast, in that southeastern corner there was a place called Gusu, and a city called Changmen, which was one of the most prosperous and romantic places in the mortal world. Outside Changmen there was a Ten-Mile Street, and in the street there was a Renqing Lane, and in the lane there was an old temple, which, because the place was narrow, people called Gourd Temple. Beside the temple lived a local official, surnamed Zhen, named Fei, styled Shiyin. His wife, née Feng, was virtuous and gentle, deeply versed in propriety and righteousness. Although the family was not very wealthy, they were considered a prominent clan in the area. Because Zhen Shiyin was of a tranquil disposition, not concerned with fame and rank, he spent his days enjoying flowers, tending bamboo, drinking wine, and composing poems, truly a man of immortal quality. But there was one deficiency: though he was now half a century old, he had no son, only a daughter, whose milk name was Yinglian, just three years old.",
    "chapter-1-007": "One day, in the long summer daylight, Shiyin sat idly in his study. When his hand grew tired of the book, he put it down and rested on the desk, and before he knew it, he fell into a hazy sleep. In his dream, he arrived at a place he could not recognize. Suddenly he saw a monk and a Daoist coming from that direction, walking and talking. He heard the Daoist ask: 'Where do you intend to take this stupid thing?' The monk laughed and said: 'Don't worry. Now there is a romantic case that should be settled. This group of romantic debtors has not yet been reborn into the world. Taking this opportunity, I will carry this stupid thing along with them, so that it may experience things.' The Daoist said: 'So the romantic sinners of recent times are about to create calamities and go through the world again? But I wonder where they will fall?' The monk laughed and said: 'This matter is laughable to tell—it is a rare thing unheard of for a thousand years. It is only because on the bank of the Spirit River in the West, by the Stone of Three Lives, there is a crimson pearl grass, and the attendant Shenying of the Palace of Red Sunlight daily watered it with sweet dew, so the crimson pearl grass was able to prolong its days. Later, having received the essence of heaven and earth and nourished by rain and dew, it shed its grassy and woody form, took on human shape, and cultivated only a female body. She wandered all day beyond the Heaven of Resentment, eating honey-green fruit when hungry and drinking the water of the Sea of Sorrow when thirsty. Because she had not yet repaid the kindness of watering, her five organs were knotted with a lingering, unending feeling. Just recently, the attendant Shenying's mortal heart happened to burn, and taking advantage of this prosperous and peaceful era, he wished to descend to the mortal world to experience the illusion of fate, and had already registered with the Fairy of Dream Warnings. The fairy also asked about it, saying that the kindness of watering had not been repaid, and this was an opportunity to settle it. The crimson pearl fairy said: 'He gave me the grace of sweet dew, and I have no such water to repay. Since he is going down to the world as a human, I will also go down as a human, and I will repay him with all the tears of my life—that should be enough to repay him.' Because of this matter, many romantic debtors were drawn out to accompany them in settling this case.' The Daoist said: 'Indeed, this is rare to hear. I have truly never heard of repaying with tears. It seems this story will be even more trivial and delicate than past romantic affairs.' The monk said: 'Past romantic figures have only been transmitted in general outline, along with their poems and writings; but the daily meals and drinks of the household have never been recorded. Moreover, most romantic stories are only about stealing fragrance and jade, secret meetings and elopements, without ever revealing a fraction of the true feelings of young men and women. I think when this group enters the world, their infatuation, lust, wisdom, foolishness, and unworthiness will all be different from what previous people have transmitted.' The Daoist said: 'Why not take this opportunity for us to go down to the world and save a few? Would that not be a merit?' The monk said: 'Exactly my thought. Come with me to the palace of the Fairy of Dream Warnings, hand over the stupid thing clearly, and after this group of romantic sinners has descended to the world, you and I will go. Although half have already fallen into the dust, they are not yet all gathered.' The Daoist said: 'If so, I will go with you.'",
    "chapter-1-008": "Now Zhen Shiyin understood it all clearly, but he did not know what the 'stupid thing' was. He could not help stepping forward, saluting, and asking with a smile: 'May I ask the two immortals?' The monk and Daoist hurriedly returned the salute and asked. Shiyin then said: 'Just now I heard the immortals discussing cause and effect, which is truly rare in the human world. But I, your disciple, am dull and turbid, unable to understand it thoroughly. If you would be so kind as to enlighten my foolishness and tell me in detail, I will wash my ears and listen attentively. If I can be a little awakened, I may also avoid the suffering of sinking.' The two immortals laughed and said: 'This is a mystery that cannot be revealed beforehand. When the time comes, do not forget us two, and you will be able to leap out of the pit of fire.' Shiyin heard this and did not dare ask further. He smiled and said: 'The mystery cannot be revealed, but just now you mentioned a "stupid thing." I wonder what it is—might I see it?' The monk said: 'If you ask about this thing, there is indeed a one-sided fate.' So saying, he took it out and handed it to Shiyin. Shiyin took it and looked at it—it was a bright, beautiful jade, with clear characters engraved on it, reading 'Spiritual Jade' in four characters, and behind them several lines of small characters. Just as he was about to examine it closely, the monk said they had arrived at the illusion, and forcibly snatched it from his hand, and with the Daoist passed through a great stone archway, on which were written four large characters: 'The Illusory Realm of Great Void.' On both sides there was also a couplet, which read:",
    "chapter-1-009": "As Shiyin was lost in thought, he suddenly saw a poor scholar living in the neighboring Gourd Temple—surnamed Jia, named Hua, styled Shifei, and also known as Yuxing—come out. This Jia Yucun was originally from Huzhou, also from a family of scholars and officials. Because he was born in the last days of his family, his parents' and ancestors' foundations were exhausted, and his family had dwindled, leaving only himself alone. Since his hometown was of no benefit, he came to the capital to seek fame and rank, to rebuild his estate. Since coming here the year before, he had been delayed and was temporarily lodging in the temple, making a living by selling his calligraphy and writing essays. Therefore, Shiyin often associated with him. When Yucun saw Shiyin, he hurriedly saluted and said with a smile: 'Old sir, you stand at the door gazing—could there be some news in the street?' Shiyin laughed and said: 'No. Just now my little daughter was crying, so I brought her out to play. I was indeed very bored. Your arrival is most timely. Please come into my humble study for a talk, and we can both pass this long day.' So saying, he had someone send the daughter inside, and he himself took Yucun by the hand and came to the study. A young servant offered tea. They had only exchanged a few sentences when a servant flew in to report: 'Master Yan has come to pay a visit.' Shiyin hurriedly rose and apologized: 'Forgive me for the offense of leaving you. Please sit a while; I will come to accompany you shortly.' Yucun also rose and yielded: 'Old sir, please go ahead. I am a frequent guest; what harm is there in waiting a little?' As he spoke, Shiyin had already gone out to the front hall.",
    "chapter-1-010": "One day, it was again the Mid-Autumn Festival. After Shiyin's family banquet was finished, he prepared another feast in the study, and he himself walked by moonlight to the temple to invite Yucun. It turned out that since the day Yucun had seen the Zhen family's maid look back at him twice, he had considered her a kindred spirit and kept her in his heart at all times. Now it was Mid-Autumn again, and he could not help but feel nostalgic facing the moon, so he composed a five-character poem on the spot:",
    "chapter-1-011": "The moonlight, as if intentional, first shines on the jade tower. After reciting this, Yucun thought again of his lifelong ambitions, which had not yet met their time. He scratched his head and sighed at the sky, then recited a couplet aloud:",
    "chapter-1-012": "It happened that on this day, leaning on his cane, he struggled to the street to ease his mind, when he saw a lame Daoist coming from that direction, wild and unkempt, with hemp sandals and a patched robe, muttering some words, which were:",
    "chapter-1-013": "Foolish parents have been many since ancient times; who has seen filial sons and grandsons? Shiyin heard this and came forward, saying: 'What are you muttering about? I only hear "good" and "done," "good" and "done."' The Daoist laughed and said: 'If you truly hear the words "good" and "done," you can still be considered understanding. Know that in all the world, good is done, and done is good. If not done, then not good; if you want good, you must be done. This song of mine is called the "Song of the Good Done."' Shiyin, who was originally endowed with innate wisdom, upon hearing these words, was already thoroughly enlightened in his heart. He laughed and said: 'Wait! Let me annotate your "Song of the Good Done," how about it?' The Daoist laughed and said: 'Annotate it, annotate it.' Shiyin then said:",
    "chapter-1-014": "A mean hut and empty hall, once a bed full of tablets; withered grass and dry willows, once a place of song and dance. Spider webs knot the carved beams; green gauze now pastes over the wicker window. What talk of rouge being thick, powder being fragrant—how have both temples turned to frost? Yesterday, white bones were sent to the yellow mound; tonight, under the red lantern, mandarin ducks lie in the tent. Gold fills the box, silver fills the box; in the blink of an eye, beggars are reviled by all. Just as you lament that others' lives are short, you do not know that when you return, you will die! Training has its method, but it cannot guarantee that later you will not become a robber. Choosing a fine match, who would expect to end up in a brothel lane! Because you dislike the small gauze cap, you end up bearing the cangue; yesterday you pitied the cold of the tattered coat, today you dislike the length of the purple robe: in the chaos, just as you finish singing, I take the stage, mistaking a foreign land for home. How absurd—in the end, all are making wedding clothes for others! The mad lame Daoist heard this, clapped his hands and laughed, saying: 'The annotation is apt, the annotation is apt!' Shiyin then said, 'Let's go!' He snatched the cloth bag from the Daoist's shoulder and carried it on his own, and without returning home, he drifted away with the mad Daoist. At once the neighborhood was stirred, and people spread it as news. When Fengshi heard of this, she cried as if dead, and could only discuss with her father, sending people to search everywhere, but what news could be found? Helpless, she had to rely on her parents to live. Fortunately, she still had two old maidservants by her side, and the three of them, mistress and maids, worked day and night at needlework to sell, helping her father with expenses. Although Feng Su complained daily, he could do nothing about it."
  }
}