header:
  namespace: clarion
  clan: hongloumeng-joly
  source-language: zh-CN
  target-language: en-US
groups:
- path: chapter-1
  entries:
  - id: chapter-1-001
    source: 此開卷第一回也．作者自云：因曾歷過一番夢幻之后，故將真事隱去， 而借"通靈"之說，撰此《石頭記》一書也．故曰"甄士隱"云云．但書中所記 何事何人？自又云：“今風塵碌碌，一事無成，忽念及當日所有之女子，一
      一細考較去，覺其行止見識，皆出于我之上．何我堂堂須眉，誠不若彼裙釵 哉？實愧則有余，悔又無益之大無可如何之日也！當此，則自欲將已往所賴 天恩祖德，錦衣紈褲之時，飫甘饜肥之日，背父兄教育之恩，負師友規談之
      德，以至今日一技無成，半生潦倒之罪，編述一集，以告天下人：我之罪固 不免，然閨閣中本自歷歷有人，万不可因我之不肖，自護己短，一并使其泯 滅也．雖今日之茅椽蓬牖，瓦灶繩床，其晨夕風露，階柳庭花，亦未有妨我
      之襟怀筆墨者．雖我未學，下筆無文，又何妨用假語村言，敷演出一段故事 來，亦可使閨閣昭傳，复可悅世之目，破人愁悶，不亦宜乎？"故曰"賈雨村 "云云．
    target: This is the opening chapter of the book. The author says: Having once passed through a dreamlike experience, he concealed the true events and, borrowing the tale of the "Spiritual Stone," wrote this book, The Story of the Stone. Hence the name "Zhen Shiyin" and so forth. But what events and what persons does the book record? He further says: "Now, busy and bustling in this dusty world, I have accomplished nothing. Suddenly I thought of all the women of former days, and as I examined them one by one in detail, I felt that their conduct and insight were all superior to mine. How is it that I, a dignified man, am truly inferior to those women in skirts and hairpins? Indeed, shame is more than enough, and regret is useless—a day of utter helplessness! At such a time, I wished to compile a collection recounting the sins of my past—the days when I relied on Heaven's grace and ancestral virtue, clad in embroidered silks and fine trousers, sated with sweet and rich fare—turning my back on the kindness of my father and elder brother's instruction, failing the virtue of my teachers' and friends' admonitions, until today I have not mastered a single skill and have spent half my life in ruin. I set this down to tell the world: my sins indeed cannot be excused, yet among the women's chambers there were truly remarkable persons, one after another. I must not, because of my own unworthiness and self-protective concealment of my faults, let them perish along with me. Though today I dwell in a thatched hut with wicker windows, with an earthen stove and a rope bed, the morning and evening wind and dew, the willows by the steps and flowers in the courtyard, do not hinder my heart or my brush. Though I am unlearned and my writing lacks literary grace, what harm is there in using rustic speech and village talk to spin out a tale, that the women of the inner chambers may be made known, the world's eyes delighted, and men's sorrows dispelled? Is that not fitting?" Hence the name "Jia Yucun" and so forth.
  - id: chapter-1-002
    source: 此回中凡用“夢”用“幻”等字，是提醒閱者眼目，亦是此書立意本旨 ．
    target: In this chapter, the repeated use of words such as "dream" and "illusion" is meant to alert the reader's eye and is also the fundamental purpose of this book's conception.
  - id: chapter-1-003
    source: 原來女媧氏煉石補天之時，于大荒山無稽崖練成高經十二丈，方經二十 四丈頑石三万六千五百零一塊．媧皇氏只用了三万六千五百塊，只單單剩了 一塊未用，便棄在此山青埂峰下．誰知此石自經段煉之后，靈性已通，因見
      眾石俱得補天，獨自己無材不堪入選，遂自怨自歎，日夜悲號慚愧．
    target: It happened that when the goddess Nüwa was refining stones to repair the sky, at the Wuji Cliff of the Great Waste Mountain she fashioned thirty-six thousand five hundred and one blocks of stubborn stone, each twelve zhang in height and twenty-four zhang square. The goddess used only thirty-six thousand five hundred of them, leaving a single block unused, which she cast aside at the foot of Green Ridge Peak on this mountain. Who would have thought that after this stone had been refined, its spiritual nature was awakened. Seeing that all the other stones had been used to repair the sky, while it alone was unfit for selection due to its lack of worth, it began to lament its fate, crying out day and night in shame and grief.
  - id: chapter-1-004
    source: 空空道人遂向石頭說道：“石兄，你這一段故事，据你自己說有些趣味 ，故編寫在此，意欲問世傳奇．据我看來，第一件，無朝代年紀可考，第二 件，并無大賢大忠理朝廷治風俗的善政，其中只不過几個异樣女子，或情或
      痴，或小才微善，亦無班姑，蔡女之德能．我縱抄去，恐世人不愛看呢。” 石頭笑答道：“我師何太痴耶！若云無朝代可考，今我師竟假借漢唐等年紀 添綴，又有何難？但我想，歷來野史，皆蹈一轍，莫如我這不借此套者，反
      倒新奇別致，不過只取其事体情理罷了，又何必拘拘于朝代年紀哉！再者， 市井俗人喜看理治之書者甚少，愛适趣閒文者特多．歷來野史，或訕謗君相 ，或貶人妻女，奸淫凶惡，不可胜數．更有一种風月筆墨，其淫穢污臭，屠
      毒筆墨，坏人子弟，又不可胜數．至若佳人才子等書，則又千部共出一套， 且其中終不能不涉于淫濫，以致滿紙潘安，子建，西子，文君，不過作者要 寫出自己的那兩首情詩艷賦來，故假擬出男女二人名姓，又必旁出一小人其
      間撥亂，亦如劇中之小丑然．且鬟婢開口即者也之乎，非文即理．故逐一看 去，悉皆自相矛盾，大不近情理之話，竟不如我半世親睹親聞的這几個女子 ，雖不敢說強似前代書中所有之人，但事跡原委，亦可以消愁破悶，也有几
      首歪詩熟話，可以噴飯供酒．至若离合悲歡，興衰際遇，則又追蹤躡跡，不 敢稍加穿鑿，徒為供人之目而反失其真傳者．今之人，貧者日為衣食所累， 富者又怀不足之心，縱然一時稍閒，又有貪淫戀色，好貨尋愁之事，那里去
      有工夫看那理治之書？所以我這一段故事，也不愿世人稱奇道妙，也不定要 世人喜悅檢讀，只愿他們當那醉淫飽臥之時，或避世去愁之際，把此一玩， 豈不省了些壽命筋力？就比那謀虛逐妄，卻也省了口舌是非之害，腿腳奔忙
      之．再者，亦令世人換新眼目，不比那些胡牽亂扯，忽离忽遇，滿紙才人 淑女，子建文君紅娘小玉等通共熟套之舊稿．我師意為何如？”
    target: The Taoist Kongkong then said to the stone: "Brother Stone, this story of yours, as you yourself say, has some interest, and so you have written it here, wishing to send it forth to the world as a tale of wonder. As I see it, first, there is no dynasty or era to verify it by; second, it contains no great sages or loyal ministers governing the court or reforming customs. It merely has a few extraordinary women, some amorous, some infatuated, some with minor talents and small virtues—none possessing the moral excellence of Ban Gu or Cai Wenji. Even if I were to copy it out, I fear the world would not care to read it." The stone replied with a smile: "Master, why are you so foolish! If you say there is no dynasty to verify it by, what difficulty is there for you, Master, to simply borrow the reigns of the Han or Tang dynasties and add them on? But I think that all the unofficial histories of the past have followed the same worn path. Better that mine does not borrow this convention, and is instead novel and distinctive. I merely take the truth of events and human feeling—why must I be bound by dynasty and era! Moreover, among the common people of the marketplace, few enjoy reading books of governance and morality, while many delight in light and entertaining writings. The unofficial histories of the past either slander rulers and ministers, or defame men's wives and daughters—their lewdness and villainy are beyond counting. There is also a kind of romantic writing whose filth and stench, whose murderous and poisonous prose, corrupts the young—also beyond counting. As for books of gifted scholars and beautiful ladies, a thousand of them all come from the same mold, and in the end they cannot avoid descending into licentiousness, so that every page is filled with Pan An, Zijian, Xi Shi, and Wenjun—merely because the author wishes to display his own two amorous poems and flowery rhapsodies, and so invents the names of a man and a woman, and must also bring in a petty villain to stir up trouble, like a clown in a play. Moreover, the maidservants speak in archaic literary phrases, nothing but pedantry and moralizing. Read them one by one, and they are all self-contradictory, wildly improbable talk. They are not as good as these few women I have personally seen and heard in my half lifetime. Though I dare not say they surpass all the characters in previous books, yet the full account of their deeds can dispel sorrow and relieve boredom, and there are a few crooked verses and familiar sayings that can accompany a meal or a cup of wine. As for partings and reunions, joys and sorrows, rises and falls, I have followed the traces closely, not daring to add the slightest fabrication, lest I merely please the eye and lose the true transmission. The people of today—the poor are burdened daily by food and clothing, and the rich harbor discontented hearts. Even if they have a moment of leisure, there are matters of lust and greed, of coveting goods and seeking worries—where would they find the time to read books of governance? Therefore, in this story of mine, I do not wish the world to marvel at its wonders or praise its subtleties, nor do I insist that they delight in reading it. I only hope that when they are drunk, sated, and lying idle, or when they seek to escape the world and dispel their cares, they might play with this book—would that not save them some of their lifespan and strength? Compared with scheming after vanity and chasing illusions, it would also spare them the harm of gossip and dispute, and the toil of running about. Moreover, it will let the world see with fresh eyes, unlike those old manuscripts full of forced entanglements, sudden partings and meetings, and pages crowded with gifted scholars and fair ladies, Zijian, Wenjun, Hongniang, Xiaoyu, and all the other threadbare conventions. What does my Master think of this?"
  - id: chapter-1-005
    source: 空空道人听如此說，思忖半晌，將《石頭記》再檢閱一遍，因見上面雖 有些指奸責佞貶惡誅邪之語，亦非傷時罵世之旨，及至君仁臣良父慈子孝， 凡倫常所關之處，皆是稱功頌德，眷眷無窮，實非別書之可比．雖其中大旨
      談論，亦不過實錄其事，又非假擬妄稱，一味淫邀艷約，私訂偷盟之可比． 因毫不干涉時世，方從頭至尾抄錄回來，問世傳奇．從此空空道人因空見色 ，由色生情，傳情入色，自色悟空，遂易名為情僧，改《石頭記》為《情僧
      錄》．東魯孔梅溪則題曰《風月寶鑒》．后因曹雪芹于悼紅軒中披閱十載， 增刪五次，纂成目錄，分出章回，則題曰《金陵十二釵》．并題一絕云：
    target: Hearing this, the Taoist Kongkong pondered for a long while, then examined The Story of the Stone once more from beginning to end. He saw that although it contained some words exposing treachery, condemning flatterers, and denouncing evil and villainy, it was not aimed at satirizing the times or reviling the world. Wherever it touched upon the bonds of human relations—the benevolence of rulers, the goodness of ministers, the kindness of fathers, the filial piety of sons—it sang praises of merit and virtue with endless affection, truly incomparable to other books. Though its main purport was discussion, it was nothing more than a faithful record of events, not to be compared with those fabrications and false claims, those tales of wanton assignations and secret trysts. Because it did not in the least interfere with the affairs of the age, he copied it out from beginning to end and sent it forth to the world as a tale of wonder. From then on, the Taoist Kongkong, through emptiness perceiving form, from form giving rise to feeling, transmitting feeling into form, and from form awakening to emptiness, changed his name to the Monk of Passion and renamed The Story of the Stone as The Record of the Monk of Passion. Kong Meixi of eastern Lu titled it The Precious Mirror of Romance. Later, Cao Xueqin, having perused it for ten years in his Mourning Red Studio, revised it five times, compiled the table of contents, and divided it into chapters, titled it The Twelve Beauties of Jinling. He also inscribed a quatrain:
  - id: chapter-1-006
    source: 當日地陷東南，這東南一隅有處曰姑蘇，有城曰閶門者，最是紅塵中一 二等富貴風流之地．這閶門外有個十里街，街內有個仁清巷，巷內有個古廟 ，因地方窄狹，人皆呼作葫蘆廟．廟旁住著一家鄉宦，姓甄，名費，字士隱
      ．嫡妻封氏，情性賢淑，深明禮義．家中雖不甚富貴，然本地便也推他為望 族了．因這甄士隱稟性恬淡，不以功名為念，每日只以觀花修竹，酌酒吟詩 為樂，倒是神仙一流人品．只是一件不足：如今年已半百，膝下無儿，只有
      一女，乳名喚作英蓮，年方三歲．
    target: In the beginning, when the earth tilted toward the southeast, in that southeastern corner there was a place called Gusu, and within it a city gate called Changmen—one of the foremost places of wealth, rank, and romance in the mortal world. Outside the Changmen gate there was a Ten Li Street, and within the street an Alley of Benevolent Purity, and within the alley an old temple. Because the place was narrow and cramped, everyone called it Gourd Temple. Beside the temple lived a retired local official named Zhen, given name Fei, styled Shiyin. His lawful wife, née Feng, was of gentle and virtuous disposition, deeply versed in propriety and righteousness. Though the family was not exceedingly wealthy, they were regarded as a prominent clan in the locality. Because Zhen Shiyin was by nature tranquil and indifferent, unconcerned with worldly fame and advancement, his daily pleasures were merely viewing flowers, trimming bamboo, pouring wine, and chanting poetry—a man of immortal caliber. There was but one deficiency: though he was now past fifty, he had no son at his knee, only a daughter, whose milk name was Yinglian, just three years old.
  - id: chapter-1-007
    source: 一日，炎夏永晝，士隱于書房閒坐，至手倦拋書，伏几少憩，不覺朦朧 睡去．夢至一處，不辨是何地方．忽見那廂來了一僧一道，且行且談．只听 道人問道：“你攜了這蠢物，意欲何往？"那僧笑道：“你放心，如今現有
      一段風流公案正該了結，這一干風流冤家，尚未投胎入世．趁此机會，就將 此蠢物夾帶于中，使他去經歷經歷。”那道人道：“原來近日風流冤孽又將 造劫歷世去不成？但不知落于何方何處？"那僧笑道：“此事說來好笑，竟
      是千古未聞的罕事．只因西方靈河岸上三生石畔，有絳珠草一株，時有赤瑕 宮神瑛侍者，日以甘露灌溉，這絳珠草始得久延歲月．后來既受天地精華， 复得雨露滋養，遂得脫卻草胎木質，得換人形，僅修成個女体，終日游于离
      恨天外，饑則食蜜青果為膳，渴則飲灌愁海水為湯．只因尚未酬報灌溉之德 ，故其五內便郁結著一段纏綿不盡之意．恰近日這神瑛侍者凡心偶熾，乘此 昌明太平朝世，意欲下凡造歷幻緣，已在警幻仙子案前挂了號．警幻亦曾問
      及，灌溉之情未償，趁此倒可了結的．那絳珠仙子道：`他是甘露之惠，我 并無此水可還．他既下世為人，我也去下世為人，但把我一生所有的眼淚還 他，也償還得過他了．'因此一事，就勾出多少風流冤家來，陪他們去了結
      此案。”那道人道：“果是罕聞．實未聞有還淚之說．想來這一段故事，比 歷來風月事故更加瑣碎細膩了。”那僧道：“歷來几個風流人物，不過傳其 大概以及詩詞篇章而已，至家庭閨閣中一飲一食，總未述記．再者，大半風
      月故事，不過偷香竊玉，暗約私奔而已，并不曾將儿女之真情發泄一二．想 這一干人入世，其情痴色鬼，賢愚不肖者，悉与前人傳述不同矣。”那道人 道：“趁此何不你我也去下世度脫几個，豈不是一場功德？"那僧道：“正
      合吾意，你且同我到警幻仙子宮中，將蠢物交割清楚，待這一干風流孽鬼下 世已完，你我再去．如今雖已有一半落塵，然猶未全集。”道人道：“既如 此，便隨你去來。”
    target: One day, in the long daylight of scorching summer, Shiyin sat idly in his study. When his hand grew weary he set down his book and rested briefly on the desk, and before he knew it he had drifted into a hazy sleep. In his dream he came to a place whose location he could not discern. Suddenly he saw a monk and a Taoist approaching from the other side, walking and talking as they came. He heard the Taoist ask: "Where do you intend to take this stupid thing?" The monk laughed and said: "Set your mind at ease. There is now a romantic case that ought to be settled. This company of romantic debtors has not yet been reborn into the world. Taking this opportunity, I shall slip this stupid thing in among them, so that it may go and experience something." The Taoist said: "So the romantic sinners of recent times are again to create calamities and pass through the world? But I wonder to what place and what region they will fall?" The monk laughed and said: "This matter is laughable to relate—a rare thing unheard of in a thousand ages. It is only because on the bank of the Spirit River in the west, beside the Stone of Three Lives, there grew a single Crimson Pearl Plant. At that time, the Divine Attendant in Waiting of the Palace of Red Sunlight daily watered it with sweet dew, and only thus did the Crimson Pearl Plant prolong its years. Later, having received the essence of heaven and earth and nourished by rain and dew, it was able to shed its grassy form and take human shape, cultivating itself into a female body. All day she wandered beyond the Heaven of Parting Sorrows; when hungry she ate the fruit of secret green as her fare, when thirsty she drank the water of the Sea of Sorrows as her soup. Because she had not yet repaid the kindness of the watering, within her five organs there congealed a lingering, unending sentiment. Just recently, the Divine Attendant in Waiting happened to have his mortal heart stirred. Taking advantage of this bright and peaceful age, he wished to descend to the mortal world to experience the illusion of fate, and had already registered his name before the desk of the Fairy of Illusion. The Fairy had also asked about it—the kindness of the watering had not been repaid, and this was an opportunity to settle it. The Crimson Pearl Fairy said: 'He bestowed the grace of sweet dew, and I have no such water to return. Since he is going down to be born as a man, I too shall go down and be born as a woman, and all the tears of my lifetime I shall give to him—surely that will repay him.' Because of this one matter, how many romantic debtors were drawn forth to accompany them in settling this case." The Taoist said: "Truly this is rarely heard. I have never heard of the doctrine of repaying tears. It seems this story will be even more intricate and delicate than the romantic affairs of the past." The monk said: "The romantic figures of the past were only transmitted in broad outline, along with their poems and verses; the daily meals and drinks of the household and inner chambers were never recorded. Moreover, most romantic tales are nothing but stealing fragrance and pilfering jade, secret assignations and elopements—they never reveal even a fraction of the true feelings of young men and women. I think when this company enters the world, the passion-mad and lust-obsessed, the worthy and the unworthy, will all be different from what former writers have transmitted." The Taoist said: "Why not take this opportunity for the two of us to go down to the world and deliver a few souls? Would that not be a meritorious deed?" The monk said: "Exactly my thought. Come with me to the palace of the Fairy of Illusion, where we shall hand over this stupid thing properly. When this company of romantic ghosts has all descended to the world, then the two of us shall go. Though half have already fallen into the dust, they are not yet all assembled." The Taoist said: "If that is so, I shall follow you."
  - id: chapter-1-008
    source: 卻說甄士隱俱听得明白，但不知所云"蠢物"系何東西．遂不禁上前施禮 ，笑問道：“二仙師請了。”那僧道也忙答禮相問．士隱因說道：“适聞仙 師所談因果，實人世罕聞者．但弟子愚濁，不能洞悉明白，若蒙大開痴頑，
      備細一聞，弟子則洗耳諦听，稍能警省，亦可免沉倫之苦。”二仙笑道：“ 此乃玄机不可預泄者．到那時不要忘我二人，便可跳出火坑矣。”士隱听了 ，不便再問．因笑道：“玄机不可預泄，但适云`蠢物'，不知為何，或可一
      見否？"那僧道：“若問此物，倒有一面之緣。”說著，取出遞与士隱．士 隱接了看時，原來是塊鮮明美玉，上面字跡分明，鐫著"通靈寶玉"四字，后 面還有几行小字．正欲細看時，那僧便說已到幻境，便強從手中奪了去，与
      道人竟過一大石牌坊，上書四個大字，乃是"太虛幻境"．兩邊又有一幅對聯 ，道是：
    target: Now Zhen Shiyin had heard everything clearly, but he did not know what this "stupid thing" was. He could not help stepping forward, making a bow, and asking with a smile: "Greetings to the two immortal masters." The monk and the Taoist hurriedly returned the greeting and asked after him. Shiyin then said: "Just now I overheard the immortals discussing karma—truly something rarely heard in the human world. But your disciple is foolish and turbid and cannot comprehend it fully. If I might be granted the opening of my dull mind and hear the matter in full detail, your disciple would wash his ears and listen attentively. If I can be awakened even slightly, I may also escape the suffering of sinking into the mire." The two immortals laughed and said: "This is a profound mystery that cannot be revealed beforehand. When that time comes, do not forget the two of us, and you shall be able to leap out of the fiery pit." Shiyin heard this and did not presume to ask further. He then said with a smile: "The profound mystery cannot be revealed beforehand, but just now you spoke of a 'stupid thing.' I do not know what it is—might I perhaps have a look at it?" The monk said: "If you ask about this thing, there is indeed a one-meeting fate with it." So saying, he took it out and handed it to Shiyin. Shiyin received it and looked at it—it turned out to be a lustrous beautiful jade, with clear characters engraved upon it, reading "Spiritual Jade" in four characters, and behind it several lines of small script. Just as he was about to examine it closely, the monk said they had arrived at the realm of illusion, and forcibly snatched it from his hand. Together with the Taoist, he passed through a great stone archway on which were written four large characters: "The Illusory Realm of Great Void." On either side was a couplet, which read:
  - id: chapter-1-009
    source: 這士隱正痴想，忽見隔壁葫蘆廟內寄居的一個窮儒-姓賈名化，表字時 飛，別號雨行者走了出來．這賈雨村原系胡州人氏，也是詩書仕宦之族，因 他生于末世，父母祖宗根基已盡，人口衰喪，只剩得他一身一口，在家鄉無
      益，因進京求取功名，再整基業．自前歲來此，又淹蹇住了，暫寄廟中安身 ，每日賣字作文為生，故士隱常与他交接．當下雨村見了士隱，忙施禮陪笑 道：“老先生倚門佇望，敢是街市上有甚新聞否？"士隱笑道：“非也．适
      因小女啼哭，引他出來作耍，正是無聊之甚，兄來得正妙，請入小齋一談， 彼此皆可消此永晝。”說著，便令人送女儿進去，自与雨村攜手來至書房中 ．小童獻茶．方談得三五句話，忽家人飛報：“嚴老爺來拜。”士隱慌的忙
      起身謝罪道：“恕誑駕之罪，略坐，弟即來陪。”雨村忙起身亦讓道：“老 先生請便．晚生乃常造之客，稍候何妨。”說著，士隱已出前廳去了．
    target: As Shiyin was lost in these fanciful thoughts, he suddenly saw a poor scholar who lodged in the neighboring Gourd Temple come walking out—surnamed Jia, named Hua, styled Shifei, with the sobriquet Yucun. This Jia Yucun was originally from Huzhou, also of a family of poets, scholars, and officials. Because he was born in the twilight of his family's fortunes, the foundations laid by his parents and ancestors were exhausted, and his family had dwindled away until only he alone remained. With nothing to gain in his hometown, he had come to the capital to seek office and reestablish his fortunes. Since arriving the year before last, he had been delayed by difficulties and had taken temporary refuge in the temple, making his living by selling calligraphy and composing essays. Hence Shiyin often associated with him. When Yucun saw Shiyin, he hurriedly bowed and said with a smile: "Old sir, you stand at the door gazing into the distance—could there be some news in the streets?" Shiyin laughed and said: "No. It was only because my little daughter was crying that I brought her out to play. I was feeling quite bored, and your arrival is most opportune. Please come into my humble study for a talk, and we can both while away this long day." So saying, he had someone send his daughter inside, and himself took Yucun by the hand and walked with him to the study. A young servant served tea. They had exchanged only a few sentences when a servant came flying in to report: "Master Yan has come to pay a call." Shiyin hurriedly rose and apologized: "Forgive me for the offense of leaving you. Please sit a while—I shall return shortly to keep you company." Yucun also rose hastily and yielded: "Old sir, please go ahead. Your junior is a frequent visitor—what harm is there in waiting a moment?" As he spoke, Shiyin had already gone out to the front hall.
  - id: chapter-1-010
    source: 一日，早又中秋佳節．士隱家宴已畢，乃又另具一席于書房，卻自己步 月至廟中來邀雨村．原來雨村自那日見了甄家之婢曾回顧他兩次，自為是個 知己，便時刻放在心上．今又正值中秋，不免對月有怀，因而口占五言一律
      云：
    target: One day, the Mid-Autumn Festival had come around again. After the family banquet was finished, Shiyin had another table set in the study, and himself walked by moonlight to the temple to invite Yucun. It turned out that since the day Yucun had seen the Zhen family's maidservant glance back at him twice, he had taken her for a kindred spirit and kept her constantly in his heart. Now that it was again Mid-Autumn, he could not help feeling moved by the moon, and so he improvised a pentasyllabic regulated verse:
  - id: chapter-1-011
    source: 蟾光如有意，先上玉人樓．雨村吟罷，因又思及平生抱負，苦未逢時， 乃又搔首對天長歎，复高吟一聯曰：
    target: "If the toad's light has intent, let it first ascend the fair one's tower." After Yucun finished chanting, he thought again of his lifelong ambitions, bitterly unfulfilled for lack of opportunity. He scratched his head and sighed long at the sky, then chanted aloud another couplet:
  - id: chapter-1-012
    source: 可巧這日拄了拐杖掙挫到街前散散心時，忽見那邊來了一個跛足道人， 瘋癲落脫，麻屣鶉衣，口內念著几句言詞，道是：
    target: It happened that on this day, as he struggled along on his cane to the front of the street to ease his heart, he suddenly saw a lame Taoist approaching from the other side—wild and disheveled, in hempen sandals and tattered robes, muttering some verses from his mouth, which went:
  - id: chapter-1-013
    source: 痴心父母古來多，孝順儿孫誰見了？士隱听了，便迎上來道：“你滿口 說些什么？只听見些`好'`了'`好'`了'．那道人笑道：“你若果听見`好'`
      了'二字，還算你明白．可知世上万般，好便是了，了便是好．若不了，便 不好，若要好，須是了．我這歌儿，便名《好了歌》"士隱本是有宿慧的， 一聞此言，心中早已徹悟．因笑道：“且住！待我將你這《好了歌》解注出
      來何如？"道人笑道：“你解，你解。”士隱乃說道：
    target: "Foolish-hearted parents have always been many; but filial sons and grandsons—who has ever seen them?" Shiyin heard this and came forward to meet him, saying: "What are you muttering about? All I hear is 'good' and 'done,' 'good' and 'done.'" The Taoist laughed and said: "If you truly hear the words 'good' and 'done,' then you may be counted as understanding. Know that among the ten thousand things of this world, good is done, and done is good. If not done, then not good; if one wishes good, one must be done. This song of mine is called the 'Song of the Done and Good.'" Shiyin, who was endowed with innate wisdom from a previous life, had already achieved complete enlightenment in his heart upon hearing these words. He therefore laughed and said: "Wait! Let me annotate your 'Song of the Done and Good'—how would that be?" The Taoist laughed and said: "Annotate it, annotate it." Shiyin then spoke:
  - id: chapter-1-014
    source: 陋室空堂，當年笏滿床，衰草枯楊，曾為歌舞場．蛛絲儿結滿雕梁，綠 紗今又糊在蓬窗上．說什么脂正濃，粉正香，如何兩鬢又成霜？昨日黃土隴 頭送白骨，今宵紅燈帳底臥鴛鴦．金滿箱，銀滿箱，展眼乞丐人皆謗．正歎
      他人命不長，那知自己歸來喪！訓有方，保不定日后作強梁．擇膏粱，誰承 望流落在煙花巷！因嫌紗帽小，致使鎖枷杠，昨怜破襖寒，今嫌紫蟒長：亂 烘烘你方唱罷我登場，反認他鄉是故鄉．甚荒唐，到頭來都是為他人作嫁衣
      裳！那瘋跛道人听了，拍掌笑道：“解得切，解得切！"士隱便說一聲"走罷 ！"將道人肩上褡褳搶了過來背著，竟不回家，同了瘋道人飄飄而去．當下 烘動街坊，眾人當作一件新聞傳說．封氏聞得此信，哭個死去活來，只得与
      父親商議，遣人各處訪尋，那討音信？無奈何，少不得依靠著他父母度日． 幸而身邊還有兩個舊日的丫鬟伏侍，主仆三人，日夜作些針線發賣，幫著父 親用度．那封肅雖然日日抱怨，也無可奈何了．
    target: A mean hut and empty hall, where once the tablets of office filled the bed; withered grass and dying willows, where once was a place of song and dance. Spider silk knots the carved beams; green gauze now pastes over the wicker windows. What talk of rouge being rich, of powder being fragrant—how is it that both temples have turned to frost? Yesterday, on the mound of yellow earth, white bones were sent off; tonight, beneath the red lantern and within the curtains, mandarin ducks lie together. Chests full of gold, chests full of silver—in the blink of an eye, a beggar, and all men revile him. Just as one sighs that another's life is short, who knows that one's own return will be death! To train one's sons with discipline—there is no guarantee they will not become brigands. To choose a fine match from the rich—who could expect the daughter to fall into the alleys of the pleasure quarters! Because one grudges the smallness of the gauze cap, one ends up bearing the cangue and chains. Yesterday one pitied the cold of a tattered coat; today one finds the purple robe too long: in the confusion, you finish your song and I make my entrance, mistaking a foreign land for home. How utterly absurd—in the end, all are sewing wedding clothes for others! The mad lame Taoist heard this, clapped his hands and laughed, saying: "Well annotated, well annotated!" Shiyin then said "Let us go!" and snatched the cloth bag from the Taoist's shoulder, slung it on his own back, and without returning home, drifted away together with the mad Taoist. This stirred up the whole neighborhood, and everyone spread the tale as a piece of news. When Feng Shi heard of it, she wept as if she would die, and could only consult with her father, sending people to search everywhere—but what news could be found? With no recourse, she had to depend on her parents for her daily needs. Fortunately, she still had two old maidservants to attend her, and the three of them, mistress and maids, worked day and night at needlework to sell, helping with her father's expenses. Though Feng Su complained daily, there was nothing he could do.