{
  "chapter-1": {
    "chapter-1-001": "This is the opening chapter of the book. The author says: Having once passed through a dream-like experience, he concealed the true events and, borrowing the idea of 'spiritual understanding,' wrote this book, The Story of the Stone. Hence the name 'Zhen Shiyin' and so on. But what events and people are recorded in the book? He also says: 'Now, busy and bustling in the world, having accomplished nothing, I suddenly thought of all the women of those days. Examining them one by one in detail, I found their conduct and insight all surpassed mine. How is it that I, a dignified man, am truly inferior to those women? Indeed, I am more than ashamed, and regret is useless—a time of great helplessness! At this point, I wish to compile a collection of my past reliance on heavenly grace and ancestral virtue, the days of fine clothes and rich food, the kindness of my father and elder brother's education, the virtue of my teachers and friends' admonitions, and my failure to achieve any skill, my half-life of ruin—to tell the world: my sins are indeed unavoidable, but among the women's quarters there were truly remarkable people. I must not, because of my own unworthiness, protect my own shortcomings and let them be obliterated. Although today I live in a thatched hut with a broken window, an earthen stove and a rope bed, the morning and evening wind and dew, the willows and flowers in the courtyard, do not hinder my feelings and my pen. Although I am unlearned and my writing lacks literary grace, why not use rustic language and village talk to spin out a story, so that the women's quarters may be made known, and also delight the eyes of the world and dispel their sorrows? Is that not fitting?' Hence the name 'Jia Yucun' and so on.",
    "chapter-1-002": "In this chapter, the use of words like 'dream' and 'illusion' is to alert the reader's eyes, and it is also the fundamental purpose of this book.",
    "chapter-1-003": "Originally, when the goddess Nüwa was refining stones to repair the sky, at the Great Waste Mountain and the Cliff of No Name, she refined a stone twelve zhang high and twenty-four zhang square, totaling thirty-six thousand five hundred and one blocks. The goddess used only thirty-six thousand five hundred blocks, leaving a single block unused, which she discarded at the foot of Green Ridge Peak. Who would have thought that after this stone had been refined, it became spiritually aware. Seeing that all the other stones had been used to repair the sky, and that it alone was unworthy for selection due to lack of talent, it began to lament and sigh, crying day and night in shame.",
    "chapter-1-004": "The Daoist Kongkong then said to the stone: 'Brother Stone, this story of yours, according to what you say, has some interest, so you have written it here, intending to offer it to the world as a tale. In my view, first, there is no dynasty or era to verify; second, there are no great sages or loyal ministers governing the court or improving customs. It only contains a few extraordinary women, some amorous, some infatuated, some with minor talents and slight virtues, but none with the virtue and ability of Ban Zhao or Cai Wenji. Even if I copy it, I fear the world will not care to read it.' The stone smiled and replied: 'Master, why are you so foolish! If you say there is no dynasty to verify, what difficulty is there for you to borrow the Han or Tang dynasties and add a few dates? But I think that all historical romances follow the same pattern; it is better that mine does not follow this convention, and is instead novel and unique. I only take the essence of the events and their reasoning; why must I be bound by dynasty and era? Moreover, few common people enjoy reading books on governance; they prefer leisurely and amusing writings. In all historical romances, some slander rulers and ministers, some defame others' wives and daughters, and there are countless tales of lewdness and villainy. There is also a kind of romantic writing, filthy and corrupt, poisoning the minds of youth, countless in number. As for books about talented scholars and beautiful ladies, they all follow the same formula, and inevitably involve licentiousness, filling the pages with Pan An, Cao Zijian, Xi Shi, and Zhuo Wenjun—merely because the author wants to show off his own love poems and rhapsodies, so he invents the names of a man and a woman, and must also introduce a villain to stir up trouble, like a clown in a play. Moreover, the maidservants speak in classical phrases, always 'also,' 'this,' 'that,' not literary or rational. So when you read them one by one, they are all self-contradictory and far from reasonable. It would be better to use these few women I have personally seen and heard in my half-life. Though I dare not say they surpass the characters in previous books, the details of their affairs can dispel sorrow and boredom, and there are a few clumsy poems and familiar sayings that can provoke laughter and accompany wine. As for partings and reunions, joys and sorrows, rises and falls, I have followed the traces closely, not daring to add any fabrication, merely to please the eye and lose the true transmission. People today—the poor are burdened daily by food and clothing, the rich harbor discontent; even if they have a moment of leisure, they are occupied with lust and greed, coveting goods and seeking worries. Where would they find time to read books on governance? So this story of mine does not seek the world's praise for its wonder, nor does it require the world to delight in reading it. I only hope that when they are drunk, lustful, and satiated, or when they seek to escape the world and dispel sorrow, they might play with it, and would it not save some of their life and energy? Compared to pursuing illusions and chasing fantasies, it also saves the harm of gossip and the toil of running about. Moreover, it lets the world see with fresh eyes, unlike those old manuscripts full of forced connections, sudden partings and meetings, and pages of talented men and beautiful women, Cao Zijian, Zhuo Wenjun, Hongniang, Xiaoyu, and all the familiar clichés. What does my master think?'",
    "chapter-1-005": "The Daoist Kongkong, hearing this, pondered for a while and examined The Story of the Stone once more. Seeing that although it contained some words accusing the treacherous and blaming the wicked, it was not intended to criticize the times or curse the world; and where it concerned the kindness of rulers, the loyalty of ministers, the compassion of fathers, and the filial piety of sons—all matters of human relations—it praised virtue and extolled merit with endless affection, truly incomparable to other books. Although its main theme was discussion, it was merely a record of actual events, not like those books of fabricated claims and wanton assignations, secret engagements and stolen vows. Since it did not interfere with the times at all, he copied it from beginning to end and offered it to the world as a tale. From then on, the Daoist Kongkong, seeing form from emptiness, generating feeling from form, transmitting feeling into form, and from form realizing emptiness, changed his name to the Monk of Love and changed The Story of the Stone to The Record of the Monk of Love. Kong Meixi of Donglu titled it The Precious Mirror of Romance. Later, Cao Xueqin, in his Mourning Red Studio, perused it for ten years, revised it five times, compiled the table of contents, and divided it into chapters, titling it The Twelve Beauties of Jinling. He also wrote a quatrain:",
    "chapter-1-006": "In those days, when the earth tilted to the southeast, in that southeastern corner there was a place called Gusu, with a city gate called Changmen, which was one of the most prosperous and romantic places in the mortal world. Outside Changmen there was a Ten-Mile Street, and in the street there was a Renqing Lane, and in the lane there was an old temple, which, because the place was narrow, people called Gourd Temple. Beside the temple lived a local official, surnamed Zhen, named Fei, with the courtesy name Shiyin. His wife, née Feng, was virtuous and gentle, deeply versed in propriety. Although the family was not very wealthy, they were considered a prominent clan in the area. Because Zhen Shiyin was of a tranquil disposition, not concerned with fame and rank, he spent his days enjoying flowers, tending bamboo, drinking wine, and composing poems—a veritable immortal. But there was one deficiency: though he was now half a century old, he had no son, only a daughter, whose milk name was Yinglian, just three years old.",
    "chapter-1-007": "One day, in the long summer daylight, Shiyin sat idly in his study. When his hand grew tired of the book, he put it down and rested on the desk, and before he knew it, he fell into a hazy sleep. He dreamed he was in a place he could not recognize. Suddenly he saw a monk and a Daoist coming from the other side, walking and talking. He heard the Daoist ask: 'Where are you taking this stupid thing?' The monk smiled and said: 'Don't worry. Now there is a romantic case that should be settled. These romantic debtors have not yet been reborn into the world. Taking this opportunity, I will carry this stupid thing along with them, so that it may experience things.' The Daoist said: 'So the romantic sinners of recent times are about to create calamities and go through the world again? But I wonder where they will fall?' The monk smiled and said: 'This matter is laughable to tell—it is a rare thing unheard of for a thousand years. It is only because on the bank of the Spirit River in the West, by the Stone of Three Lives, there was a crimson pearl grass, and the attendant Shenying of the Palace of Red Sunlight watered it daily with dew, so that the grass was able to prolong its days. Later, having received the essence of heaven and earth and nourished by rain and dew, it shed its grassy and woody form and took human shape, becoming a female. She spent her days wandering beyond the Heaven of Resentment, eating honey-green fruit when hungry and drinking the water of the Sea of Sorrow when thirsty. Because she had not yet repaid the kindness of watering, her heart was knotted with a lingering feeling. Just recently, the attendant Shenying, his mortal heart suddenly stirred, took advantage of this prosperous and peaceful era, and wished to descend to the world to experience the illusion of fate. He had already registered with the Fairy of Dream Warnings. The fairy also asked about the unrequited kindness of watering, and said this could be settled now. The crimson pearl fairy said: 'He gave me the grace of dew, but I have no water to repay. Since he is going down to the world as a man, I will also go down as a woman, and repay him with all the tears of my life—that should be enough to repay him.' Because of this, many romantic debtors were drawn out to accompany them in settling this case.' The Daoist said: 'Indeed, this is rare. I have never heard of repaying with tears. It seems this story will be even more trivial and delicate than past romantic affairs.' The monk said: 'In the past, romantic figures were only transmitted in general outline and through their poems and writings; the daily meals and drinks of the household were never recorded. Moreover, most romantic stories are about stealing fragrance and jade, secret meetings and elopements, without ever revealing a fraction of the true feelings of young men and women. I think when these people enter the world, their infatuation, lust, wisdom, foolishness, and unworthiness will all be different from what previous generations have transmitted.' The Daoist said: 'Why not take this opportunity for us to go down to the world and save a few? Would that not be a merit?' The monk said: 'Exactly my thought. Come with me to the palace of the Fairy of Dream Warnings, hand over this stupid thing clearly, and after these romantic ghosts have descended to the world, we can go. Although half have already fallen into the dust, not all have gathered yet.' The Daoist said: 'If so, I will follow you.'",
    "chapter-1-008": "Now Zhen Shiyin understood all this clearly, but he did not know what 'stupid thing' meant. He could not help stepping forward, bowing, and asking with a smile: 'Greetings, two immortals.' The monk and Daoist hurriedly returned the greeting. Shiyin then said: 'I just heard the immortals discussing cause and effect, which is truly rare in the human world. But I am foolish and dull, unable to understand clearly. If you would be so kind as to enlighten my ignorance and tell me in detail, I will listen with washed ears, and if I can be a little awakened, I may avoid the suffering of sinking.' The two immortals smiled and said: 'This is a mystery that cannot be revealed beforehand. When the time comes, do not forget us two, and you will be able to leap out of the pit of fire.' Shiyin heard this and did not dare ask further. He smiled and said: 'The mystery cannot be revealed, but you just mentioned a "stupid thing"—I wonder what it is. Could I see it?' The monk said: 'If you ask about this thing, there is indeed a chance to see it once.' So saying, he took it out and handed it to Shiyin. Shiyin took it and looked: it was a bright, beautiful jade, with clear characters engraved on it, reading 'Spiritual Understanding Jade,' and behind it a few lines of small characters. Just as he was about to examine it closely, the monk said they had arrived at the illusion, and forcibly snatched it from his hand, and with the Daoist passed through a great stone archway, on which were written four large characters: 'The Illusory Realm of Great Void.' On both sides there was also a couplet, which read:",
    "chapter-1-009": "As Shiyin was lost in thought, he saw a poor scholar living in the neighboring Gourd Temple—surnamed Jia, named Hua, with the courtesy name Shifei, and the sobriquet Yuxing—come out. This Jia Yucun was originally from Huzhou, also from a family of scholars and officials. Because he was born in the last days of his family, his parents' and ancestors' foundations were exhausted, and his family had declined, leaving only himself alone. Since there was no benefit in staying in his hometown, he came to the capital to seek fame and fortune, to rebuild his estate. Since the year before last, he had been delayed here, temporarily lodging in the temple, making a living by selling calligraphy and writing essays. Therefore, Shiyin often associated with him. When Yucun saw Shiyin, he hurriedly bowed and said with a smile: 'Old sir, you stand at the door gazing—is there some news in the street?' Shiyin smiled and said: 'No. It was just that my little daughter was crying, so I brought her out to play. I was quite bored; your arrival is most opportune. Please come into my study for a chat, and we can both pass this long day.' So saying, he had someone send the daughter inside, and he himself took Yucun by the hand and went to the study. A young servant offered tea. They had only exchanged a few sentences when a servant flew in to report: 'Master Yan has come to pay a visit.' Shiyin hurriedly rose and apologized: 'Forgive me for leaving you; please sit a while, and I will come to accompany you.' Yucun also rose and yielded: 'Old sir, please go ahead. I am a frequent guest; what harm is there in waiting a while?' As he spoke, Shiyin had already gone out to the front hall.",
    "chapter-1-010": "One day, it was the Mid-Autumn Festival. After the family banquet was over, Shiyin prepared another feast in the study, and then walked by moonlight to the temple to invite Yucun. It turned out that since the day Yucun had seen the Zhen family's maid glance back at him twice, he had considered her a kindred spirit and kept her in his heart. Now, at Mid-Autumn, he could not help but feel nostalgic looking at the moon, and so he composed a pentasyllabic poem:",
    "chapter-1-011": "The moonlight, as if intentional, first shines on the lady's tower. After reciting this, Yucun thought of his lifelong ambitions, which had not yet met their time, and he scratched his head, sighed at the sky, and then recited a couplet aloud:",
    "chapter-1-012": "It happened that on this day, leaning on his cane, he struggled to the street to clear his mind, when he saw a lame Daoist coming from the other side, wild and disheveled, with hemp sandals and a patched coat, muttering some words, which were:",
    "chapter-1-013": "Foolish parents have been many since ancient times; who has seen filial sons and grandsons? Shiyin heard this and stepped forward, saying: 'What are you muttering about? I only hear "good" and "finished," "good" and "finished."' The Daoist smiled and said: 'If you truly hear the words "good" and "finished," then you are still somewhat understanding. Know that in this world, all things—good is finished, and finished is good. If not finished, then not good; if you want good, you must finish. This song of mine is called "The Good-Finished Song."' Shiyin, who had innate wisdom, upon hearing these words, was already thoroughly enlightened in his heart. He smiled and said: 'Wait! Let me annotate your "Good-Finished Song," how about it?' The Daoist smiled and said: 'Annotate it, annotate it.' Shiyin then said:",
    "chapter-1-014": "A mean hut and empty hall, once filled with tablets of rank; withered grass and dry willows, once a place of song and dance. Spider webs now cover the carved beams; green gauze is now pasted on the paper window. What talk of rouge being thick, powder being fragrant—how is it that both temples have turned to frost? Yesterday, white bones were sent to the yellow mound; tonight, under the red lantern, mandarin ducks lie in bed. Gold fills the chest, silver fills the chest; in the blink of an eye, beggars are reviled by all. Just as you lament others' short lives, you do not know that when you return, you will die! Training has its methods, but it does not guarantee that later you will not become a robber. Choosing a good match, who would expect to end up in a brothel! Because you dislike the small gauze cap, you end up bearing the cangue; yesterday you pitied the tattered coat's cold, today you dislike the purple robe's length: in confusion, you sing your part and I take the stage, mistaking a foreign land for home. How absurd—in the end, all is but making wedding clothes for others! The mad lame Daoist heard this, clapped his hands, and laughed: 'The annotation is apt, apt!' Shiyin then said, 'Let's go!' He snatched the Daoist's cloth bag from his shoulder and carried it himself, and without returning home, he drifted away with the mad Daoist. This stirred up the neighborhood, and people spread it as news. When Lady Feng heard of this, she cried as if dead, and could only discuss with her father, sending people to search everywhere, but no news was found. Helpless, she had to rely on her parents for support. Fortunately, she still had two old maidservants to serve her; the three of them, mistress and maids, worked day and night at needlework to sell, helping with her father's expenses. Although Feng Su complained daily, he could do nothing about it."
  }
}