header:
  namespace: clarion
  clan: legal-terms
  source-language: en-US
  target-language: zh-CN
  title: Licence agreement and research abstract for Ledgerline
  info: 'Two original documents: the end-user licence for Ledgerline, a hosted audit-trail
    platform, and the abstract of an independent evaluation paper. Register is formal
    legal and academic English.'
  standard: Render modal verbs by their legal force, keep defined terms and brand
    names consistent, keep placeholders and Latin terms untranslated, use fullwidth
    punctuation and a space between Han text and Latin or digits.
groups:
- path: definitions
  context: Opening definitions of the Ledgerline end-user licence. Capitalised terms
    carry their defined meaning throughout the document.
  type: sentence
  emotion:
  - objective
  entries:
  - id: licensee
    source: “Licensee” means the legal entity that enters into this Agreement and
      accepts its terms on behalf of its Authorised Users.
    status: initial
    context: First defined term; later clauses refer to this party by the capitalised
      noun.
    target: “被许可方”指签订本协议并代表其授权用户接受本协议条款的法律实体。
  - id: authorised-user
    source: “Authorised User” means an employee, contractor or agent of the Licensee
      whom the Licensee authorises to access the Service on its behalf.
    status: initial
    context: Defined term for the individuals the Licensee may let use the Service.
    target: “授权用户”指被许可方的员工、承包商或代理人，被许可方授权其代表被许可方访问服务。
  - id: service-data
    source: “Service Data” means all records, documents and metadata that the Licensee
      or its Authorised Users submit to or store within the Service.
    status: initial
    context: Defined term covering everything the customer loads into the platform.
    target: “服务数据”指被许可方或其授权用户提交至服务或存储在服务中的所有记录、文档和元数据。
  - id: service
    source: “Service” means the Ledgerline audit-trail platform described in Schedule
      A, together with any updates that the Operator makes generally available.
    status: initial
    context: Defined term for the product itself; the brand name stays in Latin script.
    target: “服务”指附录 A 中所述的 Ledgerline 审计追踪平台，以及运营方普遍提供的任何更新。
  - id: operator
    source: “Operator” means the company identified in the privacy notice as responsible
      for processing Service Data.
    status: initial
    context: Defined term for the provider; the privacy notice fills in the actual
      company name.
    target: “运营方”指隐私通知中确定为负责处理服务数据的公司。
- path: grant
  context: 'Grant of licence and core obligations. Modal verbs carry legal force:
    a permission is not a prediction, and an obligation is not a statement of intent.'
  type: sentence
  emotion:
  - formal
  entries:
  - id: grant-license
    source: Subject to the terms of this Agreement, the Operator grants the Licensee
      a non-exclusive, non-transferable, revocable licence to access and use the Service
      solely for its internal business purposes.
    status: initial
    context: The core grant clause; its scope is narrowed by the restrictions that
      follow.
    target: 在遵守本协议条款的前提下，运营方授予被许可方一项非排他性、不可转让、可撤销的许可，仅允许其出于内部业务目的访问和使用服务。
  - id: licensee-shall
    source: The Licensee shall ensure that every Authorised User complies with the
      terms of this Agreement.
    status: initial
    context: Obligation clause. “Shall” is a duty here, not a future tense.
    target: 被许可方应确保每位授权用户遵守本协议的条款。
  - id: operator-must
    source: The Operator must maintain the confidentiality of Service Data in accordance
      with Section 4.2 of this Agreement.
    status: initial
    context: Security obligation with a cross-reference; the section number must survive.
    target: 运营方必须按照本协议第 4.2 条的规定维护服务数据的机密性。
  - id: licensee-may
    source: The Licensee may reproduce the documentation solely for the purpose of
      training its Authorised Users.
    status: initial
    context: Permission clause. “May” grants a right; it does not predict a possibility.
    target: 被许可方可以仅为培训其授权用户之目的复制文档。
  - id: termination
    source: Either party may terminate this Agreement on thirty days' written notice
      to the other party.
    status: initial
    context: Termination right; another use of permissive “may”.
    target: 任何一方均可提前三十天书面通知另一方终止本协议。
- path: restrictions
  context: Prohibited uses. The negative modal renders as a prohibition, not as an
    inability or a prediction.
  type: sentence
  emotion:
  - formal
  entries:
  - id: licensee-may-not
    source: The Licensee may not sublicense, rent or lease the Service to any third
      party.
    status: initial
    context: Prohibition clause. “May not” forbids an act; it is not a statement of
      likelihood.
    target: 被许可方不得向任何第三方再许可、出租或租赁服务。
  - id: restricted-acts
    source: 'The Licensee may not: (a) reverse engineer, decompile or disassemble
      the Service; (b) remove or obscure any proprietary notice from the Service;
      or (c) use the Service to process data on behalf of any third party.'
    status: initial
    context: Enumerated prohibition; the item markers must survive so citations stay
      valid.
    target: '被许可方不得：(a) 对服务进行反向工程、反编译或反汇编；(b) 删除或遮蔽服务上的任何专有声明；或 (c)
      使用服务代表任何第三方处理数据。'
  - id: no-derivative
    source: The Licensee may not create derivative works based on the Service or any
      part of it.
    status: initial
    context: Short prohibition parallel to the enumerated list.
    target: 被许可方不得基于服务或其任何部分创作衍生作品。
  - id: confidentiality
    source: The Licensee shall keep confidential all non-public information about
      the Service disclosed by the Operator.
    status: initial
    context: Confidentiality duty; the obligation falls on the Licensee.
    target: 被许可方应对运营方披露的关于服务的所有非公开信息保密。
- path: notices
  context: Disclaimers, liability caps and the privacy notice. The force of the disclaimer
    is carried by wording, not by typography.
  type: sentence
  emotion:
  - formal
  entries:
  - id: warranty-disclaimer
    source: THE SERVICE IS PROVIDED “AS IS” AND “AS AVAILABLE”, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF
      ANY KIND, WHETHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE IMPLIED
      WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT.
    status: initial
    context: All-caps disclaimer; the Chinese keeps the same force without adding
      any formatting.
    target: 服务按“现状”和“现有可用性”提供，不作任何明示或默示的保证，包括但不限于对适销性、特定用途适用性和不侵权的默示保证。
  - id: limitation-liability
    source: To the maximum extent permitted by law, the aggregate liability of the
      Operator for all claims arising out of or relating to this Agreement shall not
      exceed the fees paid by the Licensee during the twelve months preceding the
      claim.
    status: initial
    context: Liability cap; translate fully without dropping the fee basis or the
      time window.
    target: 在法律允许的最大范围内，运营方因本协议引起或与本协议相关的所有索赔的累计责任，不得超过被许可方在索赔发生前十二个月内支付的费用。
  - id: severability
    source: If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable, the remaining
      provisions remain in full force and effect.
    status: initial
    context: Standard severability clause.
    target: 如果本协议的任何条款被认定为不可执行，其余条款仍保持完全效力。
  - id: privacy-operator
    source: This Service is operated by {operator}, which acts as the data controller
      for Service Data processed through the platform.
    status: initial
    context: Privacy notice template; {operator} is filled in by the billing system
      at runtime.
    target: 本服务由 {operator} 运营，该方作为通过平台处理的服务数据的数据控制者。
  - id: privacy-purpose
    source: The Operator processes Service Data only for the purposes of providing,
      securing and improving the Service.
    status: initial
    context: Purpose limitation from the privacy notice.
    target: 运营方仅为提供、保护和改进服务之目的处理服务数据。
  - id: retention-period
    source: Unless a longer period is required by law, Service Data is deleted {months}
      months after the Licensee closes its account.
    status: initial
    context: Retention clause; {months} is a runtime number, not translatable text.
    target: 除非法律要求更长的保留期限，服务数据将在被许可方关闭账户 {months} 个月后被删除。
- path: abstract
  context: Abstract of an original evaluation paper on anomaly detection in financial
    audit trails. Technical terms follow the agreed terminology; one term stays in
    Latin script.
  type: description
  emotion:
  - objective
  entries:
  - id: abstract
    source: Financial audit trails grow by millions of events each day, and the teams
      that review them need detectors that flag genuine anomalies without overwhelming
      human analysts. We evaluate three detection approaches on a corpus of synthetic
      ledger events, measuring false-positive rate, end-to-end latency and processing
      throughput under adversarial noise. Our results show that a sequence model built
      on learned event Embedding improves robustness to noise while keeping latency
      below the interactive threshold. We release the evaluation harness and the synthetic
      corpus to support reproducible comparison.
    status: initial
    context: Full abstract; keep the evaluation framing and the three measurements
      intact.
    target: 金融审计追踪每天新增数百万条事件，负责审查这些数据的团队需要能够标记真正异常的检测器，同时不使人工分析人员不堪重负。我们在一个合成账本事件语料库上评估了三种检测方法，测量了对抗性噪声下的误报率、端到端延迟和处理吞吐量。结果表明，基于学习的事件 Embedding 构建的序列模型在提高抗噪声稳健性的同时，将延迟保持在交互阈值以下。我们发布了评估工具和合成语料库，以支持可复现的比较。