header:
  namespace: clarion
  clan: legal-privacy
  source-language: en-US
  target-language: zh-CN
groups:
- path: policy.definitions
  entries:
  - id: def-personal-data
    source: “Personal Data” means any information relating to an identified or identifiable
      natural person that the Operator processes through the Portal.
    target: “个人数据”指与已识别或可识别的自然人相关的任何信息，且该信息由运营方通过门户处理。
  - id: def-data-subject
    source: “Data Subject” means the natural person to whom the Personal Data relates,
      whether or not that person holds an account with the Operator.
    target: “数据主体”指个人数据所涉及的自然人，无论该人是否在运营方处持有账户。
  - id: def-operator
    source: “Operator” means Quillmark Data Services, the company that decides the
      purposes and the means of the Processing described in this notice and that engages
      Halberd Cloud GmbH to host the Portal.
    target: “运营方”指 Quillmark Data Services，即决定本通知所述处理目的和方式的公司，并委托 Halberd Cloud GmbH 托管门户。
  - id: def-processing
    source: “Processing” means any operation performed on Personal Data, whether or
      not by automated means, and includes collection, storage, transfer, disclosure
      and erasure.
    target: “处理”指对个人数据执行的任何操作，无论是否通过自动化方式进行，包括收集、存储、传输、披露和删除。
  - id: def-portal
    source: “Portal” means the web application through which a request is submitted,
      tracked and answered.
    target: “门户”指用于提交、跟踪和答复请求的网页应用程序。
- path: policy.requests
  entries:
  - id: policy-effective-date
    source: This notice takes effect on 1 September 2026 and replaces the notice published
      on 14 June 2024.
    target: 本通知自2026年9月1日起生效，并取代2024年6月14日发布的通知。
  - id: policy-volume-figures
    source: In the 2025 reporting year the Operator received 1,250,000 requests through
      the Portal and answered 98.6% of them within the statutory period.
    target: 在2025报告年度，运营方通过门户收到1,250,000份请求，并在法定期限内答复了其中98.6%的请求。
  - id: policy-retention-clause
    source: 4.2 The Operator deletes the records of a closed account within 30 days,
      unless a longer retention period is required by law.
    target: 4.2 运营方在30天内删除已关闭账户的记录，除非法律要求更长的保留期限。
  - id: policy-request-right
    source: A Data Subject may ask the Operator to correct or erase the Personal Data
      that the Operator holds about them.
    target: 数据主体可以要求运营方更正或删除运营方所持有的关于其的个人数据。
  - id: policy-erasure-crossref
    source: An erasure request is answered under the retention rule in Section 4.2,
      and the Operator confirms the outcome through the Portal.
    target: 删除请求按照第4.2节的保留规则予以答复，运营方通过门户确认结果。
  - id: portal-request-count
    source: '{pending, plural, one {# request is waiting for an answer} other {# requests
      are waiting for an answer}}'
    target: '{pending, plural, one {# 个请求正在等待答复} other {# 个请求正在等待答复}}'
  - id: portal-answer-channel
    source: '{channel, select, email {We answer by email} letter {We answer by letter}
      other {We answer through the Portal}}'
    target: '{channel, select, email {我们通过电子邮件答复} letter {我们通过信函答复}
      other {我们通过门户答复}}'
- path: dpa.authorised
  entries:
  - id: dpa-scope-instructions
    source: The Processor shall process Personal Data only on the documented instructions
      of the Controller, and shall inform the Controller without delay if an instruction
      appears to breach applicable law.
    target: 处理方仅应根据控制方的书面指示处理个人数据，并且如果某项指示似乎违反适用法律，应立即告知控制方。
  - id: dpa-audit-right
    source: 6.1 The Controller may audit the Processor once in each calendar year,
      and the Processor must give the auditor access to the records that the audit
      requires.
    target: 6.1 控制方可在每个日历年内对处理方进行一次审计，处理方必须向审计人员提供审计所需的记录访问权限。
  - id: clause-07a
    source: The Processor may use the Personal Data for the purposes set out in this
      Article.
    target: 处理方可以将个人数据用于本条所规定的目的。
  - id: clause-09a
    source: Execution of this Agreement is recorded in the Portal and is confirmed
      to both parties.
    target: 本协议的签署情况记录在门户中，并向双方确认。
  - id: dpa-hosting-region
    source: All records created under this Agreement are stored in the region agreed
      in Annex 1 and are backed up every night.
    target: 根据本协议创建的所有记录均存储在附件1中约定的区域，并每晚进行备份。
- path: dpa.restrictions
  entries:
  - id: clause-07b
    source: The Processor may use the Personal Data for the purposes set out in this
      Article.
    target: 处理方可以将个人数据用于本条所规定的目的。
  - id: clause-09b
    source: Execution of this Agreement is recorded in the Portal and is confirmed
      to both parties.
    target: 本协议的签署情况记录在门户中，并向双方确认。
  - id: dpa-enumerated-prohibition
    source: 'The Processor may not: (a) engage a new sub-processor without the prior
      written authorisation of the Controller; (b) copy the records to a device that
      the Controller has not approved; or (c) use the records to train a model of
      any kind.'
    target: '处理方不得：(a) 未经控制方事先书面授权而委托新的子处理方；(b) 将记录复制到控制方未批准的设备上；或 (c) 使用记录训练任何类型的模型。'
  - id: dpa-caps-disclaimer
    source: THE OPERATOR DOES NOT WARRANT THAT THE PORTAL WILL BE AVAILABLE WITHOUT
      INTERRUPTION OR FREE OF ERROR, AND, TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE
      LAW, DISCLAIMS ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
      AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
    target: 运营方不保证门户将无中断或无错误地可用，并且在适用法律允许的最大范围内，不承担所有默示保证，包括适销性和特定用途适用性的默示保证。
  - id: dpa-audit-crossref
    source: Nothing in this Article limits the audit right granted in Section 6.1.
    target: 本条中的任何内容均不限制第6.1节授予的审计权利。
- path: paper.abstract
  entries:
  - id: paper-title
    source: 'Auditing Consent Records at Scale: A Field Study of Three Consent Portals'
    target: '大规模审计同意记录：三个同意门户的实地研究'
  - id: paper-abstract-opening
    source: Consent records are the evidence a company relies on when a regulator
      asks why a person's data was used, yet the records themselves are rarely audited.
      We report a field study of three consent portals run by mid-sized companies
      over nine months.
    target: 同意记录是公司在监管机构询问为何使用某人的数据时所依赖的证据，然而这些记录本身却很少被审计。我们报告了一项对三家中型公司运营的同意门户进行的为期九个月的实地研究。
  - id: paper-abstract-method
    source: Each portal was exercised with a fixed script of routine requests, and
      every receipt it returned was compared against the entry that the portal had
      written to its own log.
    target: 每个门户都使用固定的常规请求脚本进行测试，并将其返回的每份回执与门户写入自身日志的条目进行比较。
  - id: paper-abstract-findings
    source: Two of the three portals lost the timestamp of at least one withdrawal,
      and none of them could show, without manual work, which version of the notice
      a person had agreed to. We argue that a consent record is worth no more than
      the audit trail behind it, and we publish the test script so that other teams
      can repeat the study.
    target: 三个门户中有两个丢失了至少一次撤回的时间戳，并且没有一个门户能够在无需人工操作的情况下显示某人同意的是哪个版本的通知。我们认为，同意记录的价值不超过其背后的审计追踪，我们公开测试脚本，以便其他团队可以重复这项研究。