header:
  namespace: clarion
  clan: lit-modern
  source-language: en-US
  target-language: zh-CN
groups:
- path: narration
  entries:
  - id: narration-open
    source: The town had kept its old manners longer than it kept its money. At the
      end of every workday Maren walked the harbour road the way a clock walks its
      dial, and each evening the last thing she heard before the dark came down was
      the tin wind-bell over the chandler's door, telling the street that the tide
      had turned and that the world, for a little while, would go on without her.
      She did not hurry. The salt worked its way into everything she owned, and she
      had stopped minding it years ago.
    target: 这座小镇保留旧日礼节的时间比它留住钱财的时间更久。每个工作日结束时，玛伦都会沿着港口路走，就像钟表沿着表盘走一样；每天傍晚，黑暗降临前她听到的最后一样东西，是杂货店门上的锡制风铃，它告诉街道潮水已转，世界在短时间内将继续运转，而无需她的参与。她不急不忙。盐分渗入她拥有的一切，而她多年前便已不再在意。
  - id: narration-memory
    source: Of all the things the town let slip into the sea, the sound of that bell
      was the one thing it kept onshore. Men forgot their own birthdays and the names
      of ships they had crewed, but every one of them could tell you what the wind
      was doing the last time the bell rang plain.
    target: 小镇让许多东西滑入海中，唯独那铃声被留在了岸上。人们会忘记自己的生日，忘记自己曾服役的船名，但每个人都能告诉你，上一次铃声清晰响起时，风在做什么。
- path: dialogue
  entries:
  - id: dialogue-wall
    source: '"Wind''s back," said Sol. "Didn''t figure you''d be out." "I couldn''t
      sleep," Maren said. "The bell again?" "The bell." Sol folded his arms. "Folks
      round here reckon a wind-bell don''t ring for the wind. It rings for what the
      wind forgot." "That''s the whole of it," Maren said. "You sleep any better for
      knowing?" "I know the letter F in better, and that''s the whole of it," said
      Sol.'
    target: “风回来了，”索尔说。“没想到你会出来。”“我睡不着，”玛伦说。“又是那铃声？”“是那铃声。”索尔双臂交叉。“这儿的人觉得风铃不是为风而响的。它是为风遗忘的东西而响的。”“就是这么回事，”玛伦说。“知道了这些，你睡得更好些了吗？”“我知道‘更好’里的‘更’字怎么写，就这么回事，”索尔说。
  - id: dialogue-breakfast
    source: '"You''d keep the bell if the sea gave it back," Sol said one morning.
      "Wouldn''t you?" "I''d hang it where it hangs now," Maren said. "Then what''s
      all the listening for?" "To be sure it''s still there." Sol shook his head.
      "It''ll be there after both of us," he said, "and it won''t miss us." "I know."
      "Then you know more than most." "I know the listening, anyway." "That''s not
      the same thing." "It''s close enough," Maren said. "It''s close enough for me."'
    target: “如果大海把铃还回来，你会留着它吧，”一天早晨索尔说。“你会吗？”“我会把它挂回现在挂的地方，”玛伦说。“那还听它做什么？”“为了确认它还在那儿。”索尔摇了摇头。“我们俩都不在了它还会在那儿，”他说，“它不会想念我们。”“我知道。”“那你比大多数人知道得多。”“至少我知道倾听。”“那不是一回事。”“也差不多了，”玛伦说。“对我来说差不多了。”
- path: monologue
  entries:
  - id: monologue-tide
    source: I never knew whether the bell was a comfort or a reproach. It rang in
      the same key as my mother's name, the way the tide writes the same line on the
      sand and then rubs it out. I wanted to keep the sound, the way a child keeps
      a stone, but a sound has no pocket to be kept in, and so I keep it in my chest
      and pretend it does not weigh anything.
    target: 我从来不知道那铃声是安慰还是责备。它响起的音调与我母亲的名字相同，就像潮水在沙滩上写下同样的线条，然后又将其抹去。我想留住那声音，就像孩子留住一块石头，但声音没有口袋可以装，所以我把它藏在胸口，假装它毫无重量。
  - id: monologue-stone
    source: The stone I kept as a girl is still under the floorboard where I left
      it, and if the house burned I would not grieve for the stone. But the bell is
      not kept anywhere; it is only heard, and a heard thing has to be heard again
      or it was never there at all. I keep going back, then, not to keep the bell,
      but to keep the hearing of it.
    target: 我少女时留下的那块石头，仍在我放置它的地板下；如果房子烧了，我不会为那块石头悲伤。但铃声无处可藏；它只能被听见，而被听见的东西必须再次被听见，否则它便从未存在过。所以我一次次回去，不是为了留住那铃声，而是为了留住那倾听。
- path: description
  entries:
  - id: description-dusk
    source: The harbour light turned the water to hammered brass, and one late gull
      stood on a piling like a man waiting for a letter. Rain hung offshore in a grey
      curtain that never quite reached the quay. Somewhere a kettle was coming to
      the boil, and over it all the tin bell swung in the warm wind and rang a single
      clear note, as if the evening had been waiting to be struck.
    target: 港口的灯光把水面染成锻铜色，一只迟归的海鸥立在桩上，像在等信的人。雨在近海悬成一道灰色帷幕，始终没有完全抵达码头。某处水壶正烧到沸腾，而在这一切之上，锡制风铃在暖风中摆动，敲出一声清亮的音符，仿佛黄昏一直在等待被敲响。
  - id: description-lamplighter
    source: The lamplighter worked the length of the quay with his long pole, and
      each lamp he touched woke as if it had only been waiting to be remembered. When
      he came abreast of the chandler's shop the tin bell caught the lamplight and
      threw it across the water, and for a moment the whole harbour seemed to hang
      from that one small, swinging note.
    target: 点灯人用长杆沿着码头一路走去，他触碰的每一盏灯都亮了起来，仿佛只是在等待被记起。当他走到杂货店旁时，锡制风铃接住灯光，将它抛向水面，那一瞬间，整个港口仿佛都悬挂在那一声小小的、摇曳的音符上。
  - id: description-rain
    source: By the time the last light was lit the wind had swung to the north, and
      the grey curtain offshore began to move. It crossed the bar slowly, a whole
      wall of weather leaning toward the town, and the first drops struck the quay
      one by one, each one a small cold hand laid on the stone. The bell rang on in
      the dark, and the rain answered it.
    target: 最后一盏灯亮起时，风已转向北方，近海的灰色帷幕开始移动。它缓缓越过沙洲，一整面天气之墙向小镇倾斜，最初的雨滴一颗颗落在码头上，每一滴都像一只冰凉的小手按在石面上。铃声在黑暗中继续响着，雨声回应了它。
- path: closing
  entries:
  - id: closing-line
    source: The tide keeps nothing, and forgets nothing.
    target: 潮水不留一物，也不忘一物。