msgid ""
msgstr ""
"Language: zh-CN\n"
"Content-Type: text/plain; charset=UTF-8\n"

msgctxt "wire.headline"
msgid "Harbor bridge: third night closed, tens of thousands rerouted"
msgstr "海港大桥：连续第三晚关闭，数万人改道"

msgctxt "wire.subhead"
msgid "Engineers race the weather to certify the last of 214 cables"
msgstr "工程师与天气赛跑，认证最后一批214根缆索"

msgctxt "wire.lede"
msgid "The Meridian Harbor Bridge stayed shut for a third straight night on 14 March as crews worked through heavy rain to replace three suspension cables snapped in last week's storm, forcing tens of thousands of commuters onto two temporary ferry shuttles that carry only a fraction of the usual traffic."
msgstr "3月14日，子午线海港大桥连续第三晚关闭，工作人员冒雨更换上周暴风雨中断裂的三根悬索，迫使数万名通勤者改乘两艘临时渡轮接驳船，其运力仅为平时交通量的一小部分。"

msgctxt "wire.body-1"
msgid "Meridian Harbor Authority officials said on Tuesday that reopening depends on a full safety review, and that 78% of the bridge's 214 suspension cables have passed inspection while the rest are still being tensioned and measured. The authority has already pushed back three earlier reopening estimates, and its director, Corin Ashwell, warned that any wind above 40 kilometres per hour would halt the crane work and push the schedule back again."
msgstr "子午线海港管理局官员周二表示，重新开放取决于全面的安全检查，大桥214根悬索中已有78%通过检验，其余仍在张紧和测量中。管理局此前已三次推迟重新开放的时间预估，局长科林·阿什韦尔警告称，风速超过每小时40公里将导致吊装作业暂停，并再次推迟工期。"

msgctxt "wire.body-2"
msgid "The closure has rippled across the city's road network. Detour signs push drivers onto a single ring road that is already carrying double its design load, and tailbacks at peak hour now stretch for more than 12 kilometres along the north bank. Ferry staff added two extra crossings after 6 a.m., but queues at the east pier still wrapped around the block by mid-morning, with some commuters reporting waits of over an hour just to reach the ticket hall."
msgstr "关闭的影响波及全市路网。绕行标志将车辆引导至一条环形道路，该道路已承受设计负荷两倍的交通量，高峰时段北岸的拥堵车龙现已延伸超过12公里。渡轮工作人员在早上6点后增加了两个班次，但到上午中段，东码头的队伍仍绕街区一圈，部分通勤者反映仅排队进入售票厅就需等待一个多小时。"

msgctxt "wire.quote"
msgid "Meridian Harbor Authority director Corin Ashwell told reporters the bridge would reopen “only once every cable passes inspection — not a minute earlier.”"
msgstr "子午线海港管理局局长科林·阿什韦尔告诉记者，大桥将“只有在每根缆索都通过检验后才会重新开放——一分钟也不会提前。”"

msgctxt "wire.photo-caption"
msgid "Commuters queue for the ferry shuttle at the harbor's east pier on the third morning of the closure."
msgstr "关闭第三天早晨，通勤者在海港东码头排队等候渡轮接驳船。"

msgctxt "wire.news-alert"
msgid "Bridge closure: expect delays of up to 90 minutes on all harbor crossings."
msgstr "大桥关闭：所有海港过境点预计延误最多90分钟。"

msgctxt "feature.feature-headline"
msgid "The harbor's quiet ferry revival"
msgstr "海港渡轮的悄然复兴"

msgctxt "feature.feature-lede"
msgid "For decades the harbor ferries were a curiosity — a slow, scenic way to cross the water that most commuters forgot existed. Three closed nights have made them essential."
msgstr "几十年来，海港渡轮一直是个稀罕物——一种缓慢而风景优美的过水方式，大多数通勤者都忘了它的存在。三个关闭的夜晚让它们变得不可或缺。"

msgctxt "feature.feature-body-1"
msgid "The morning boat from the east pier is now the only reason many people reach the office before ten. Its crew of three knows the regulars by name and by order: the woman with the folding bicycle, the teacher who grades papers against the rail, the chef who rides across with a crate of sourdough. What began as an emergency measure has quietly become a small community, complete with its own running jokes and a captain who narrates the crossing like a tour guide."
msgstr "从东码头出发的早班船，如今是许多人能在十点前到达办公室的唯一原因。船上三名船员按名字和顺序认识常客：带折叠自行车的女士、靠在栏杆上批改试卷的老师、带着一箱酸面包过河的厨师。最初作为应急措施而设的渡轮，悄然形成了一个小社区，有着自己的内部笑话，还有一位像导游一样解说航程的船长。"

msgctxt "feature.feature-body-2"
msgid "Not everyone is nostalgic. Shopkeepers on the far side say the detour has cut their weekday trade by nearly a fifth, and the ferry's single fare of 2 euros adds up for anyone crossing twice a day. The authority has promised a rebate scheme, but the details are still being drafted, and a petition asking for a temporary footbridge has gathered eleven thousand signatures in three days."
msgstr "并非所有人都怀旧。对岸的店主表示，绕行使他们的工作日营业额减少了近五分之一，而渡轮单程票价2欧元，对每天往返两次的人来说是一笔不小的开销。管理局承诺推出退款计划，但细节仍在起草中，一份要求搭建临时人行桥的请愿书在三天内已收集到一万一千个签名。"

msgctxt "feature.feature-quote"
msgid "Captain Dea Prowse, at the helm of the morning shuttle, put it plainly: “Nobody planned for this. We just showed up and started carrying people.”"
msgstr "早班接驳船的船长迪娅·普劳斯直言不讳：“没有人计划过这一切。我们只是出现，然后开始载人。”"

msgctxt "social.post-sarcastic"
msgid "Oh wonderful. A third evening inching home at walking pace. Truly top-class bridge management, folks."
msgstr "哦，太棒了。第三个晚上以步行速度蜗行回家。各位，真是顶级的桥梁管理。"

msgctxt "social.post-enthusiastic"
msgid "The free shuttle ferry is a lifesaver — smooth sailing and a view to boot! #MeridianFerry 🚢"
msgstr "免费接驳渡轮真是救命稻草——航行平稳，还能欣赏风景！#子午线渡轮 🚢"

msgctxt "comments.comment-1"
msgid "Three days stuck on the wrong side of the water and I'm tearing my hair out. Sort it out, city hall."
msgstr "三天被困在水域错误的一侧，我快抓狂了。市政厅，赶紧解决吧。"

msgctxt "comments.comment-2"
msgid "Left for work at 6 a.m., reached the office at 8:50. Someone owes me two hours."
msgstr "早上6点出门上班，8点50才到办公室。有人欠我两个小时。"

msgctxt "comments.comment-3"
msgid "My neighbor's already trying to sell his car. Says the bridge can stay shut for all he cares."
msgstr "我邻居已经在试着卖车了。他说大桥关不关都无所谓。"

msgctxt "editors-note.editors-note"
msgid "This editor's note accompanies the report because the reopening timeline quoted on Tuesday has already changed twice. We will update the figures in this article as the authority publishes new information, and we will correct any error in them without delay."
msgstr "本编者按附于报道之后，因为周二引用的重新开放时间表已两次变更。我们将根据管理局发布的新信息更新本文中的数据，并立即更正其中的任何错误。"

msgctxt "editors-note.editors-note-correction"
msgid "An earlier version of this article stated that the east pier shuttle ran every 30 minutes. It runs every 20 minutes at peak hours."
msgstr "本文早期版本称东码头接驳船每30分钟一班。高峰时段实际为每20分钟一班。"

msgctxt "editors-note.editors-note-signoff"
msgid "— The Editors"
msgstr "——编辑部"