{
  "chapter-1": {
    "chapter-1-001": "On the fifteenth day of the fourth month in the second year of Jianning, the Emperor held court in the Hall of Warm Virtue. As he ascended the throne, a violent wind suddenly arose in the corner of the hall, and a great green serpent was seen flying down from the beams, coiling itself upon the chair. The Emperor fell back in fright, and his attendants hurriedly carried him into the palace, while all the officials fled in confusion. In a moment, the serpent disappeared. Suddenly there came a great thunderstorm with hail, which lasted until midnight and destroyed countless houses. In the second year of Jianning, in the second month, there was an earthquake in Luoyang; and again the sea overflowed, and the people living along the coast were all swept into the sea by the great waves. In the first year of Guanghe, hens turned into roosters. On the first day of the sixth month, a black vapor more than ten zhang long flew into the Hall of Warm Virtue. In the seventh month of autumn, a rainbow appeared at the Jade Hall; and the cliffs of Wuyuan Mountain all collapsed. These various omens of misfortune were not limited to one instance.",
    "chapter-1-002": "The Emperor issued an edict asking the assembled ministers for the cause of these calamities. The court gentleman Cai Yong submitted a memorial, believing that the falling rainbow and the transformation of hens were due to the interference of women and eunuchs in government, and his words were quite blunt and direct. The Emperor sighed upon reading the memorial and then rose to change his clothes. Cao Jie, who was behind him, secretly observed and reported everything to those around him. He then framed Cai Yong on other charges and sent him back to his fields. Later, Zhang Rang, Zhao Zhong, Feng Xu, Duan Gui, Cao Jie, Hou Lan, Jian Shuo, Cheng Kuang, Xia Yun, and Guo Sheng, ten in all, conspired together in villainy and were known as the 'Ten Regular Attendants.' The Emperor trusted Zhang Rang deeply and called him 'Foster Father.' The government grew increasingly corrupt, causing the hearts of the people to turn to chaos, and bandits rose like swarms of bees.",
    "chapter-1-003": "At that time, in Julu Commandery, there were three brothers: one named Zhang Jiao, one named Zhang Bao, and one named Zhang Liang. Zhang Jiao was originally a failed scholar. While gathering herbs in the mountains, he met an old man with blue eyes and a youthful face, holding a staff of wild pear wood. The old man called Jiao into a cave and gave him three volumes of a heavenly book, saying, 'This is called the Essential Arts of Great Peace. If you obtain it, you should proclaim transformation on behalf of Heaven and save all people; if you harbor disloyal thoughts, you will surely receive evil retribution.' Jiao bowed and asked the old man's name. The old man said, 'I am the Old Immortal of Nanhua.' With these words, he turned into a gentle breeze and departed.",
    "chapter-1-004": "When Zhang Jiao learned that the matter had been exposed, he raised troops by starlight, calling himself General of Heaven; Zhang Bao called himself General of Earth, and Zhang Liang called himself General of Man. He proclaimed to the masses, 'Now the fortune of Han is about to end, and a great sage has appeared; you should all follow the will of Heaven to bring about Great Peace.' The common people from all directions, wrapping their heads in yellow turbans and following Zhang Jiao in rebellion, numbered four to five hundred thousand. The bandit force was immense, and the government troops fled at the sight of them. He Jin memorialized the Emperor to issue urgent edicts, ordering all places to prepare defenses and win merit by suppressing the rebels; at the same time, he sent the generals Lu Zhi, Huangfu Song, and Zhu Jun, each leading elite troops, to attack them in three separate routes.",
    "chapter-1-005": "Now let us speak of Zhang Jiao's army, which first invaded the borders of Youzhou. The governor of Youzhou, Liu Yan, was a native of Jingling in Jiangxia and a descendant of Prince Gong of Lu of the Han dynasty. When he heard that the bandit troops were approaching, he summoned the commandant Zou Jing to discuss the matter. Jing said, 'The bandit troops are many, and our troops are few. My lord should quickly recruit soldiers to meet the enemy.' Liu Yan agreed with his advice and immediately posted notices to recruit volunteers. The notice reached Zhuo County, and it brought forth a hero from that county.",
    "chapter-1-006": "This man was not very fond of reading; he was broad-minded and gentle, sparing of words, and did not show joy or anger on his face. He had long cherished great ambitions and delighted in befriending heroes throughout the realm. He was seven chi five cun tall, with ears that hung to his shoulders and hands that reached past his knees. His eyes could see his own ears, his face was like polished jade, and his lips were as if painted with vermilion. He was a descendant of Liu Sheng, Prince Jing of Zhongshan, and a great-great-grandson of Emperor Jing of Han. His surname was Liu, given name Bei, style Xuande. Formerly, Liu Zhen, son of Liu Sheng, was enfeoffed as Marquis of Zhuolu Pavilion during the reign of Emperor Wu, but later lost his marquisate for failing to contribute gold, and thus this branch of the family remained in Zhuo County. Xuande's grandfather was Liu Xiong, and his father was Liu Hong. Hong had been recommended as filial and incorrupt and had served as an official, but he died early. Xuande was orphaned young and served his mother with utmost filial piety; the family was poor, and he made a living selling straw sandals and weaving mats. He lived in Lou Sang Village in the county. To the southeast of his home stood a great mulberry tree, over five zhang tall, which from a distance looked like a lush canopy. A physiognomist said, 'This family will surely produce a noble person.'",
    "chapter-1-007": "Fei said, 'Behind my estate there is a peach garden, where the flowers are in full bloom. Tomorrow we should make a sacrifice to Heaven and Earth in the garden, and the three of us shall become sworn brothers, joining our strength and hearts, and then we can plan great deeds.' Xuande and Yunchang both replied in unison, 'That would be excellent.' The next day, in the peach garden, they prepared a black ox, a white horse, and other sacrificial offerings. The three burned incense, bowed twice, and made their oath, saying, 'We, Liu Bei, Guan Yu, and Zhang Fei, though of different surnames, now become brothers, and we shall join our hearts and strength to rescue the distressed and support the weak; above, to repay the state; below, to bring peace to the common people. We do not seek to be born in the same year, month, and day, but we wish to die in the same year, month, and day. Heaven and Earth, bear witness to our hearts. If we betray righteousness and forget gratitude, may Heaven and man alike punish us.' After the oath, they honored Xuande as the elder brother, Guan Yu next, and Zhang Fei as the younger brother. After the sacrifice to Heaven and Earth, they slaughtered the ox and set out wine, gathering the brave men of the village, more than three hundred in all, and drank deeply in the peach garden. The next day they prepared weapons, but regretted only that they had no horses to ride.",
    "chapter-1-008": "Heroes show their brilliance this very day, one tests the spear, one tests the blade. At first appearance they display their might, and the Three Kingdoms will record their names.",
    "chapter-1-009": "The next day, Xuande and Zou Jing led their troops forward with drums and shouts. The bandits came out to fight, and Xuande led his troops in retreat. The bandits gave chase, and as they passed over the mountain ridge, Xuande's troops all sounded the gong, and the left and right forces came out together. Xuande wheeled his troops around and attacked again. Attacked from three sides, the bandits were utterly routed. They were pursued all the way to the city of Qingzhou, where the governor Gong Jing also led out the local militia to join the fight. The bandits suffered a great defeat, with many killed, and the siege of Qingzhou was lifted. Later, someone wrote a poem praising Xuande:",
    "chapter-1-010": "With divine skill in strategy and planning, two tigers must yield to one dragon. At first appearance he achieves great deeds, and rightly he shall divide the tripods from humble beginnings.",
    "chapter-1-011": "After Gong Jing had rewarded the troops, Zou Jing wished to return. Xuande said, 'I have recently heard that the general Lu Zhi is fighting the bandit leader Zhang Jiao at Guangzong. I once studied under Lu Zhi and wish to go and assist him.' So Zou Jing led his troops back, and Xuande, with Guan and Zhang, led his five hundred men to Guangzong. Arriving at Lu Zhi's camp, they entered the tent, paid their respects, and explained their purpose. Lu Zhi was greatly pleased and kept them before his tent to await orders.",
    "chapter-1-012": "At that time, Zhang Jiao's bandits numbered one hundred fifty thousand, while Lu Zhi had fifty thousand troops, and they faced each other at Guangzong without a decisive victory. Lu Zhi said to Xuande, 'I am now besieging the bandits here, while the bandit brothers Zhang Liang and Zhang Bao are at Yingchuan, facing Huangfu Song and Zhu Jun. You may lead your own troops, and I will give you an additional thousand government soldiers, to go to Yingchuan to gather intelligence and arrange a joint attack.' Xuande accepted the order and led his troops by starlight to Yingchuan. At that time, Huangfu Song and Zhu Jun were leading troops against the bandits, who, after an unfavorable battle, retreated into Changshe and made camp among the grass. Song and Jun planned, saying, 'The bandits have made camp among the grass; we should attack with fire.' They then ordered the soldiers to each bind a bundle of grass and lie in ambush. That night a great wind suddenly arose. After the second watch, they set fire all at once, and Song and Jun each led troops to attack the bandit camp. The flames reached the sky, and the bandits, in panic, could not saddle their horses or don their armor, and scattered in all directions. They fought until dawn, when Zhang Liang and Zhang Bao led the remnants of their defeated troops and fled along the road.",
    "chapter-1-013": "Suddenly they saw a troop of cavalry, all bearing red banners, coming head-on and blocking their path. At the front appeared a general, seven chi tall, with narrow eyes and a long beard; he held the rank of Cavalry Commandant and was a native of Qiao Commandery in the state of Pei: his surname was Cao, given name Cao, style Mengde. Cao's father, Cao Song, was originally of the Xiahou clan; because he was the adopted son of the eunuch Cao Teng, he took the surname Cao. Cao Song begot Cao, whose childhood name was A-Man, also known as Jili. When young, Cao loved hunting and delighted in song and dance; he was resourceful and full of schemes. Cao had an uncle who, seeing Cao's reckless behavior, was often angry and reported it to Cao Song. Song reproved Cao. Cao suddenly conceived a plan: when he saw his uncle coming, he pretended to fall to the ground, feigning a stroke. His uncle, alarmed, told Song, who hurried to see him, but Cao was perfectly well. Song said, 'Your uncle said you had a stroke; are you now recovered?' Cao replied, 'I have never had such an illness; because I have lost my uncle's favor, he has falsely accused me.' Song believed him. Thereafter, whenever the uncle spoke of Cao's faults, Song paid no heed. Thus Cao was able to indulge his wild ways.",
    "chapter-1-014": "Now Xuande led Guan and Zhang to Yingchuan, and hearing the cries of battle and seeing the firelight illuminating the sky, he hurried his troops forward, but the bandits had already been scattered. Xuande met Huangfu Song and Zhu Jun and conveyed Lu Zhi's intentions. Song said, 'Zhang Liang and Zhang Bao are exhausted and at the end of their resources; they will surely flee to Guangzong to join Zhang Jiao. Xuande should go by starlight to assist.'",
    "chapter-1-015": "Xuande accepted the order and led his troops back. Halfway there, he saw a troop of soldiers escorting a prison cart, and the prisoner in the cart was none other than Lu Zhi. Xuande was greatly alarmed, dismounted hastily, and asked the reason. Zhi said, 'I was besieging Zhang Jiao and was about to defeat him; but because Jiao used sorcery, I could not win quickly. The court sent the Yellow Gate official Zuo Feng to inspect, and he demanded a bribe from me. I replied, "Our military rations are still lacking; how can I have surplus money to flatter the imperial envoy?" Zuo Feng bore a grudge and reported to the court that I was building high ramparts and not fighting, and that I was slackening the morale of the troops. Therefore the court, in anger, sent the general Dong Zhuo to take command of my troops and bring me back to the capital for questioning.'",
    "chapter-1-016": "The three men spurred their horses and led their troops out. Zhang Jiao had just defeated Dong Zhuo and was pressing the pursuit when he suddenly encountered the three men charging in. Jiao's troops fell into great confusion and fled more than fifty li. The three men rescued Dong Zhuo and returned to camp. Zhuo asked the three what offices they held. Xuande said, 'Commoner.' Zhuo treated them with great contempt and showed no courtesy. When Xuande came out, Zhang Fei angrily said, 'We risked our lives in bloody battle to save this fellow, yet he is so rude; if I do not kill him, my anger will not be appeased!' He was about to seize his blade and enter the tent to kill Dong Zhuo. Indeed: Human feelings are ever fickle and worldly, who knows a hero in common dress? Would that a forthright man like Yide might slay all the ungrateful in the world! As for Dong Zhuo's fate, let the next chapter explain."
  },
  "chapter-2": {
    "chapter-2-001": "In the sixth year of Zhongping, in the fourth month of summer, Emperor Ling was gravely ill and summoned the Grand General He Jin to the palace to discuss matters of succession. He Jin had risen from a butcher's family; because his sister entered the palace as a noble lady and bore the prince Bian, she was made empress, and Jin thereby gained power and high office. The Emperor also favored the Lady Wang, who bore the prince Xie. Empress He, in jealousy, poisoned Lady Wang. Prince Xie was raised in the palace of Empress Dowager Dong. Empress Dowager Dong was the mother of Emperor Ling and the wife of Liu Chang, Marquis of Jiedu Pavilion. Originally, because Emperor Huan had no sons, the son of the Marquis of Jiedu Pavilion was brought in to succeed, and that was Emperor Ling. When Emperor Ling succeeded to the throne, he brought his mother into the palace and honored her as Empress Dowager.",
    "chapter-2-002": "After He Jin heard this, he went out and said to the assembled officials, 'Jian Shuo plotted to harm me; his family should be exterminated. The rest need not be harmed indiscriminately.' Yuan Shao said, 'If you do not root out the weeds, you will surely bring about your own destruction.' Jin said, 'My mind is made up; say no more.' The officials all withdrew.",
    "chapter-2-003": "The next day, the Empress Dowager ordered He Jin to participate in the administration of the Secretariat, and the rest were all given offices. Empress Dowager Dong summoned Zhang Rang and others to the palace to discuss, saying, 'He Jin's sister was first promoted by me. Now her son sits on the imperial throne, and all the officials, internal and external, are his confidants: his power is too great. What shall I do?' Rang memorialized, 'Your Majesty may hold court behind a curtain and listen to affairs of state; enfeoff Prince Xie as a king; promote the Empress's brother Dong Zhong to high office with military authority; and favor us with important positions: then great things can be accomplished.'",
    "chapter-2-004": "Empress Dowager Dong was greatly pleased. The next day at court, Empress Dowager Dong issued an edict, enfeoffing Prince Xie as King of Chenliu, making Dong Zhong General of Chariots and Cavalry, and allowing Zhang Rang and others to participate in court affairs. Empress Dowager He, seeing Empress Dowager Dong's monopoly on power, held a banquet in the palace and invited Empress Dowager Dong to attend. When the wine had gone round, Empress Dowager He rose, raised her cup, bowed, and said, 'We are both women; it is not fitting for us to participate in court affairs. In former times, Empress Lü, because she held great power, had her entire clan of a thousand people executed. Now we should dwell deep in the palace; let the great ministers and elders discuss the affairs of state themselves. This would be the fortune of the state. I beg you to heed this.' Empress Dowager Dong angrily replied, 'You poisoned Lady Wang out of jealousy. Now, relying on your son being emperor and your brother He Jin's power, you dare to speak recklessly! I could order the General of Chariots and Cavalry to cut off your brother's head as easily as turning over my hand!' Empress Dowager He also grew angry and said, 'I advised you with good words; why do you turn angry instead?' Empress Dowager Dong said, 'You are from a family of butchers and wine sellers; what understanding do you have?'",
    "chapter-2-005": "After a while, He Jin went in to inform the Empress Dowager, wishing to execute the eunuchs. Empress Dowager He said, 'The eunuchs have commanded the palace since the founding of Han; it is the established custom. The late emperor has just left the world, and you wish to kill the old ministers; that is not honoring the ancestral temple.' Jin was a man without resolution, and hearing the Empress Dowager's words, he withdrew with a respectful bow. Yuan Shao came forward and asked, 'How goes the great matter?' Jin said, 'The Empress Dowager does not consent; what can be done?' Shao said, 'You may summon the heroes of the four quarters, order troops to the capital, and exterminate the eunuchs. At this critical moment, the Empress Dowager cannot refuse.' Jin said, 'This plan is excellent!' He then issued proclamations to all the garrisons, summoning them to the capital.",
    "chapter-2-006": "The chief clerk Chen Lin said, 'This cannot be! As the saying goes, "Covering one's eyes to catch sparrows" is self-deception. Even for a small matter one cannot deceive oneself to achieve success, let alone for a great affair of state! Now, General, relying on the imperial authority and holding military power, you stride like a dragon and step like a tiger, with all in your hands: if you wish to execute the eunuchs, it is like kindling a great furnace to burn a hair. You should act swiftly, exercise authority, and decide at once, and Heaven and man will follow you; but instead you summon outside ministers, who will approach the capital, and heroes will gather, each with his own mind: this is what is called holding a weapon by the blade and giving the handle to others. Your success will surely fail, and instead it will bring chaos.' He Jin laughed and said, 'This is the view of a coward!' Beside him, a man clapped his hands and laughed loudly, saying, 'This matter is as easy as turning over one's hand; why discuss it further!' Looking at him, it was Cao Cao. Indeed: To remove the petty men around the ruler, one must heed the counsel of wise men at court. As for what Cao Cao said, let the next chapter explain."
  }
}