{
  "chapter-1": {
    "chapter-1-001": "On the fifteenth day of the fourth month in the second year of Jianning, the Emperor held court in the Hall of Warm Virtue. As he ascended the throne, a violent wind suddenly rose from the corner of the hall, and a great green serpent was seen flying down from the beams, coiling itself upon the chair. The Emperor fell back in fright, and his attendants hurriedly carried him into the palace, while all the officials fled in confusion. In a moment, the serpent disappeared. Suddenly there came a great thunderstorm with hail, which lasted until midnight and destroyed countless houses. In the second year of Jianning, in the second month, there was an earthquake in Luoyang; and again the sea overflowed, and the people living along the coast were all swept into the sea by the great waves. In the first year of Guanghe, hens turned into roosters. On the first day of the sixth month, a black vapor more than ten zhang long flew into the Hall of Warm Virtue. In the seventh month of autumn, a rainbow appeared at the Jade Hall; and the cliffs of Wuyuan Mountain all collapsed. These various omens of misfortune were not limited to one instance.",
    "chapter-1-002": "The Emperor issued an edict asking the assembled ministers for the cause of these calamities. The Gentleman Consultant Cai Yong submitted a memorial, believing that the falling rainbow and the transformation of hens were due to the interference of women and eunuchs in government, and his words were quite blunt and direct. The Emperor sighed upon reading the memorial and then rose to change his clothes. Cao Jie, who was behind him, secretly observed this and told all those around him. He then framed Cai Yong on other charges and sent him back to his fields. Later, Zhang Rang, Zhao Zhong, Feng Xu, Duan Gui, Cao Jie, Hou Lan, Jian Shuo, Cheng Kuang, Xia Yun, and Guo Sheng, ten in all, conspired together in villainy and were known as the 'Ten Regular Attendants.' The Emperor trusted Zhang Rang deeply and called him 'Foster Father.' The government grew increasingly corrupt, causing the hearts of the people to turn to chaos, and bandits rose like swarms of bees.",
    "chapter-1-003": "At that time, in Julu Commandery, there were three brothers: one named Zhang Jiao, one named Zhang Bao, and one named Zhang Liang. Zhang Jiao was originally a failed scholar. While gathering herbs in the mountains, he met an old man with blue eyes and a youthful face, holding a staff of wild pear wood. The old man called Jiao into a cave and gave him three volumes of a heavenly book, saying, 'This is called the Essential Arts of Great Peace. If you obtain it, you should act as heaven's agent to transform and save all people; if you harbor disloyal thoughts, you will surely receive evil retribution.' Jiao bowed and asked the old man's name. The old man said, 'I am the Old Immortal of Nanhua.' With these words, he transformed into a gust of clear wind and departed.",
    "chapter-1-004": "When Zhang Jiao learned that his plans had been exposed, he raised his troops overnight, calling himself the General of Heaven—Zhang Bao called himself the General of Earth, and Zhang Liang the General of Men. He proclaimed to the masses, 'Now the fortune of Han is about to end, and a great sage has appeared; you should all follow the will of heaven to bring about great peace.' The common people from all directions, wrapping their heads in yellow turbans and following Zhang Jiao in rebellion, numbered four to five hundred thousand. The bandit force was immense, and the imperial troops fled at the sight of them. He Jin memorialized the Emperor to issue urgent edicts, ordering all places to prepare defenses and win merit by suppressing the rebels; at the same time, he sent the General of the Household Lu Zhi, Huangfu Song, and Zhu Jun, each leading elite troops, to attack them in three separate routes.",
    "chapter-1-005": "Now let us speak of Zhang Jiao's army, which first invaded the borders of Youzhou. The Governor of Youzhou, Liu Yan, was a native of Jingling in Jiangxia and a descendant of Prince Gong of Lu of the Han dynasty. When he heard that the bandit troops were about to arrive, he summoned the Commandant Zou Jing to discuss the matter. Jing said, 'The bandits are many, and our troops are few; you should quickly recruit soldiers to meet the enemy.' Liu Yan agreed with his advice and immediately posted notices to recruit volunteers. The notice reached Zhuo County, and it brought forth a hero from that county.",
    "chapter-1-006": "This man was not very fond of reading; he was broad-minded and gentle, sparing of words, and did not show joy or anger on his face. He had always cherished great ambitions and delighted in befriending heroes from all over. He was seven chi five cun tall, with ears that hung to his shoulders and hands that reached past his knees. His eyes could see his own ears, his face was like polished jade, and his lips were as if painted with vermilion. He was a descendant of Liu Sheng, Prince Jing of Zhongshan, and a great-great-grandson of Emperor Jing of Han. His surname was Liu, given name Bei, style Xuande. In the past, Liu Zhen, son of Liu Sheng, was enfeoffed as Marquis of Zhuolu Pavilion during the reign of Emperor Wu, but later lost his marquisate for failing to contribute the required gold, and thus this branch of the family remained in Zhuo County. Xuande's grandfather was Liu Xiong, and his father was Liu Hong. Hong had been recommended as filial and incorrupt, and had served as an official, but died early. Xuande lost his father in childhood and served his mother with utmost filial piety. The family was poor, and he made a living selling straw sandals and weaving mats. He lived in Lou Sang Village in the county. To the southeast of his house stood a great mulberry tree, over five zhang tall, which from a distance looked like a grand canopy. A physiognomist said, 'This family will surely produce a noble person.'",
    "chapter-1-007": "Fei said, 'Behind my manor there is a peach garden, where the flowers are in full bloom. Tomorrow we should make a sacrifice to heaven and earth in the garden, and the three of us shall become sworn brothers, joining our strength and hearts, and then we can plan great deeds.' Xuande and Yunchang both replied in unison, 'That would be excellent.' The next day, in the peach garden, they prepared a black ox, a white horse, and other sacrificial offerings. The three burned incense, bowed twice, and made their oath, saying, 'We, Liu Bei, Guan Yu, and Zhang Fei, though of different surnames, now become brothers, and we shall join our hearts and strength to rescue the distressed and support the weak; above, to repay the state; below, to bring peace to the common people. We do not seek to be born in the same year, month, and day, but we wish to die in the same year, month, and day. May heaven and earth bear witness to our hearts. If we betray righteousness and forget gratitude, may heaven and man alike punish us.' After the oath, they honored Xuande as the elder brother, Guan Yu next, and Zhang Fei as the younger brother. After the sacrifice to heaven and earth, they slaughtered the ox and set out wine, gathering the brave men of the village, more than three hundred in all, and drank deeply in the peach garden. The next day they prepared their weapons, but regretted only that they had no horses to ride.",
    "chapter-1-008": "The hero's brilliance shines forth this day, one tests the spear, one tests the blade. At first appearance, his might is displayed, and the Three Kingdoms will mark his name.",
    "chapter-1-009": "The next day, Xuande and Zou Jing led their troops forward with drums and shouts. The bandits came out to fight, and Xuande led his troops in retreat. The bandits gave chase, and as they crossed the mountain ridge, Xuande's army sounded the gong all at once, and the left and right forces both came out. Xuande wheeled his troops around and attacked again. With a three-pronged assault, the bandits were utterly routed. They pursued them all the way to the city of Qingzhou, where Governor Gong Jing also led out the local militia to join the fight. The bandits suffered a great defeat, with many killed, and thus the siege of Qingzhou was lifted. Later, someone wrote a poem praising Xuande:",
    "chapter-1-010": "With divine skill in strategy and planning, two tigers must yield to one dragon. At first appearance, he achieves great merit, and rightly he shall share the tripods in his humble state.",
    "chapter-1-011": "After Gong Jing had rewarded the troops, Zou Jing wished to return. Xuande said, 'I have recently heard that the General of the Household Lu Zhi is fighting the bandit leader Zhang Jiao at Guangzong. I once studied under Lu Zhi and wish to go and assist him.' So Zou Jing led his troops back, and Xuande, with Guan and Zhang, led his five hundred men to Guangzong. Arriving at Lu Zhi's camp, they entered the tent, paid their respects, and explained their purpose. Lu Zhi was greatly pleased and kept them before his tent to await orders.",
    "chapter-1-012": "At that time, Zhang Jiao's bandits numbered one hundred fifty thousand, while Lu Zhi had fifty thousand troops, and they faced each other at Guangzong without a decisive victory. Lu Zhi said to Xuande, 'I am now besieging the bandits here, while the bandit brothers Zhang Liang and Zhang Bao are at Yingchuan, facing Huangfu Song and Zhu Jun. You may lead your own troops, and I will give you an additional thousand imperial soldiers, to go to Yingchuan and gather intelligence, and we will set a time to suppress them together.' Xuande accepted the order and led his troops day and night to Yingchuan. At that time, Huangfu Song and Zhu Jun were leading troops against the bandits, who, after an unfavorable battle, retreated into Changshe and made camp relying on the grass. Song and Jun planned together, saying, 'The bandits have made camp relying on grass; we should attack with fire.' They then ordered the soldiers to each bind a bundle of grass and lie in ambush. That night a great wind suddenly arose. After the second watch, they set fire all at once, and Song and Jun each led troops to attack the bandit camp. The flames reached the sky, and the bandits, in panic, had no time to saddle their horses or don their armor, and scattered in all directions. They killed until dawn, when Zhang Liang and Zhang Bao led the remnants of their defeated troops and fled along the road.",
    "chapter-1-013": "Suddenly they saw a troop of cavalry, all bearing red banners, coming head-on and blocking their path. At the front appeared a general, seven chi tall, with narrow eyes and a long beard. He held the rank of Cavalry Commandant and was a native of Qiao Commandery in the state of Pei: his surname was Cao, given name Cao, style Mengde. Cao's father, Cao Song, was originally of the Xiahou clan, but because he was the adopted son of the eunuch Cao Teng, he took the surname Cao. Cao Song begot Cao Cao, whose childhood name was A-Man, and also known as Jili. When young, Cao loved hunting and delighted in song and dance; he was resourceful and full of schemes. Cao had an uncle who, seeing Cao's unrestrained behavior, was often angry with him and reported it to Cao Song. Song reproved Cao. Cao suddenly conceived a plan: when he saw his uncle coming, he pretended to fall to the ground, feigning a stroke. His uncle, alarmed, told Song, who hurried to see him, but Cao was perfectly well. Song said, 'Your uncle said you had a stroke; are you now recovered?' Cao said, 'I have never had such an illness; because I have lost my uncle's affection, he has deceived you.' Song believed him. After that, whenever the uncle spoke of Cao's faults, Song would not listen. Thus Cao was able to indulge himself freely.",
    "chapter-1-014": "Now let us return to Xuande, who led Guan and Zhang to Yingchuan. Hearing the cries of battle and seeing the firelight illuminating the sky, he hurried his troops forward, but the bandits had already been scattered. Xuande met with Huangfu Song and Zhu Jun and conveyed Lu Zhi's intentions. Song said, 'Zhang Liang and Zhang Bao are exhausted and at the end of their resources; they will surely flee to Guangzong to join Zhang Jiao. Xuande, you should go immediately, day and night, to assist.'",
    "chapter-1-015": "Xuande accepted the order and led his troops back. Halfway there, he saw a group of soldiers escorting a prison cart, and the prisoner inside was none other than Lu Zhi. Xuande was greatly alarmed, dismounted in haste, and asked the reason. Lu Zhi said, 'I was besieging Zhang Jiao and was about to defeat him; but because Jiao used sorcery, I could not win quickly. The court sent the Yellow Gate official Zuo Feng to inspect, and he demanded a bribe from me. I replied, \"Our military provisions are still lacking; how can I have surplus money to flatter the imperial envoy?\" Zuo Feng, bearing a grudge, reported to the court that I was building high ramparts and not fighting, and that I was slackening the morale of the army. Therefore, the court, in anger, sent the General of the Household Dong Zhuo to take command of my troops and bring me back to the capital for questioning.'",
    "chapter-1-016": "The three men spurred their horses and led their troops out. Zhang Jiao had just defeated Dong Zhuo and was pressing the pursuit when he suddenly encountered the three men charging in. Jiao's army fell into great confusion and fled more than fifty li. The three men rescued Dong Zhuo and returned to camp. Zhuo asked the three what positions they held. Xuande said, 'Commoner.' Zhuo treated them with great contempt and showed no courtesy. When Xuande came out, Zhang Fei angrily said, 'We personally fought in bloody battle and saved this fellow, yet he is so rude; if I do not kill him, my anger will not be appeased!' He was about to seize his blade and enter the tent to kill Dong Zhuo. Indeed: Human feelings are ever fickle and worldly, who knows a hero in common dress? How I wish for a forthright man like Yide, to slay all the ungrateful in the world! As for Dong Zhuo's fate, let the next chapter explain."
  },
  "chapter-2": {
    "chapter-2-001": "In the sixth year of Zhongping, in the fourth month of summer, Emperor Ling was gravely ill and summoned the Grand General He Jin to the palace to discuss matters of succession. He Jin had risen from a butcher's family; because his sister entered the palace as a noble consort and bore the prince Bian, she was made empress, and Jin thereby gained power and high office. The Emperor also favored Consort Wang, who bore the prince Xie. Empress He, jealous, poisoned Consort Wang to death. Prince Xie was raised in the palace of Empress Dowager Dong. Empress Dowager Dong was the mother of Emperor Ling and the wife of Liu Chang, Marquis of Jiedu Pavilion. Originally, because Emperor Huan had no sons, the son of the Marquis of Jiedu Pavilion was brought in to succeed, and this was Emperor Ling. When Emperor Ling succeeded to the throne, he brought his mother into the palace and honored her as Empress Dowager.",
    "chapter-2-002": "After He Jin heard this, he went out and said to the assembled officials, 'Jian Shuo plotted to harm me; his family should be exterminated. The rest need not be harmed indiscriminately.' Yuan Shao said, 'If you do not root out the weeds and pull up the roots, it will surely be the cause of your own destruction.' Jin said, 'My mind is made up; say no more.' The officials all withdrew.",
    "chapter-2-003": "The next day, the Empress Dowager ordered He Jin to participate in the administration of the Secretariat, and all the others were given official posts. Empress Dowager Dong summoned Zhang Rang and others to the palace to discuss, saying, 'He Jin's sister—I was the one who first promoted her. Now her son has ascended the throne, and all the officials, both inside and outside, are her confidants. Her power is too great; what shall I do?' Rang memorialized, saying, 'Your Majesty may hold court and listen to affairs from behind a curtain; enfeoff Prince Xie as a king; promote the Emperor's maternal uncle Dong Zhong to high office, giving him command of the military; and favor us with important positions—then great things can be accomplished.'",
    "chapter-2-004": "Empress Dowager Dong was greatly pleased. The next day, when court was held, Empress Dowager Dong issued an edict, enfeoffing Prince Xie as King of Chenliu, making Dong Zhong General of the Flying Cavalry, and allowing Zhang Rang and others to participate in court affairs. Empress Dowager He, seeing that Empress Dowager Dong was monopolizing power, held a banquet in the palace and invited Empress Dowager Dong to attend. When the wine had gone round and they were half drunk, Empress Dowager He rose, holding a cup, and bowed twice, saying, 'We are both women; it is not proper for us to participate in court affairs. In the past, Empress Lü, because she held great power, had her entire clan of a thousand people executed. Now we should remain deep within the palace; let the great ministers and elders discuss the affairs of state themselves. This would be the fortune of the state. I beg you to heed this.' Empress Dowager Dong flew into a rage and said, 'You poisoned Consort Wang out of jealousy. Now, relying on your son being emperor and your brother He Jin's power, you dare to speak recklessly! I could order the Flying Cavalry to cut off your brother's head as easily as turning over my hand!' Empress He also angrily replied, 'I advised you with good words; why do you turn angry instead?' Empress Dowager Dong said, 'You are from a family of butchers and wine sellers; what understanding do you have?'",
    "chapter-2-005": "After a while, He Jin went in to inform the Empress, wishing to execute the eunuchs. Empress He said, 'The eunuchs have commanded the palace since the founding of Han; it is the established custom. The late emperor has just left the world, and you wish to kill the old ministers—this is not showing proper respect for the ancestral temple.' Jin was a man without decisiveness, and hearing the Empress's words, he withdrew with a respectful 'yes.' Yuan Shao came forward and asked, 'How goes the great matter?' Jin said, 'The Empress does not consent; what can be done?' Shao said, 'You may summon the heroes of the four directions, order their troops to the capital, and exterminate the eunuchs. At this critical moment, the Empress will have no choice but to comply.' Jin said, 'This plan is excellent!' He then issued proclamations to all the garrisons, summoning them to the capital.",
    "chapter-2-006": "The Registrar Chen Lin said, 'This cannot be done! As the saying goes, \"covering one's eyes to catch sparrows\" is self-deception. Even for small matters one cannot deceive oneself to achieve success, let alone for the great affairs of state. Now you, General, rely on the imperial authority, hold the key to military power, and move with the stride of a dragon and the step of a tiger, with all decisions in your own hands. If you wish to execute the eunuchs, it would be like blowing on a great furnace to singe a hair. You should act quickly, exercise your authority, and decide firmly, and both heaven and men will follow you. But instead you issue proclamations to the provinces, bringing troops to the capital, where heroes will gather, each with his own mind—this is what is called holding a weapon by the blade and handing the handle to others. You will not achieve success; rather, it will breed chaos.' He Jin laughed and said, 'This is the view of a coward!' A man nearby clapped his hands and laughed loudly, saying, 'This matter is as easy as turning over one's hand; why discuss it further?' Looking at him, it was Cao Cao. Indeed: To remove the petty men around the ruler, one must heed the counsel of wise men at court. As for what Cao Cao said, let the next chapter explain."
  }
}