header:
  namespace: clarion
  clan: wmt24pp
  source-language: en-US
  target-language: zh-CN
groups:
- path: news
  entries:
  - id: test-en-news-beverly-press-3585-1
    source: Siso's depictions of land, water center new gallery exhibition
    target: 西索对土地与水的描绘成为新画廊展览的核心
  - id: test-en-news-beverly-press-3585-2
    source: '"People Swimming in the Swimming Pool" from 2022 is one Vicente Siso
      artwork that will display at Tierra del Sol Gallery beginning Jan. 13. (photo
      courtesy of Vicente Siso)'
    target: 2022年的《泳池中游泳的人们》是维森特·西索的作品之一，将于1月13日起在Tierra del Sol画廊展出。（图片由维森特·西索提供）
  - id: test-en-news-beverly-press-3585-3
    source: 'Tierra del Sol is pleased to present "Vicente Siso: Memories of the Land
      and Water" at the new gallery location in West Hollywood. Siso has been an artist
      in the Studio Arts Program since 2012, this marks his debut solo exhibition.
      Siso was born 1962 in Madrid and raised between Venezuela, Trinidad and Miami;
      he moved with his family to Southern California in his early 20s.'
    target: Tierra del Sol很高兴在位于西好莱坞的新画廊空间呈现“维森特·西索：土地与水的记忆”。西索自2012年起参与工作室艺术项目，此次展览是他的首次个人展览。西索1962年出生于马德里，在委内瑞拉、特立尼达和迈阿密之间长大；二十岁出头时随家人移居南加州。
  - id: test-en-news-beverly-press-3585-4
    source: 'Masterfully working across subject matter, Siso has generated a prolific
      series of landscapes, portraits, and still-life works rendered in either acrylic,
      pastel, pencil or watercolor. Drawing from family portraits, his own reference
      photographs, and recollection, his colorful compositions demonstrate his range
      of interests and skill across media. Siso''s tropical landscapes and seascapes
      reflect the geographies of his past, employing rich patterns and incorporating
      people to make meaningful connections between culture, memory and the environment.
      Siso titles his artworks in a mix of Spanish and English, signifying the celebrated
      and integral complexities of his life in Los Angeles County. "Vicente Siso:
      Memories of the Land and Water" opens on Saturday, Jan. 13, with a reception
      from 6-8 p.m. The exhibition is on view through Sunday, March 3.'
    target: 西索在多种题材上游刃有余，创作了大量风景、肖像和静物作品，媒介涵盖丙烯、粉彩、铅笔和水彩。他从家庭肖像、自己的参考照片和回忆中汲取灵感，色彩丰富的构图展现了他广泛的兴趣和跨媒介的技艺。西索的热带风景和海景反映了他过往生活的地理环境，运用丰富的图案并融入人物，在文化、记忆与环境之间建立有意义的联系。西索以西班牙语和英语混合的方式为作品命名，体现他在洛杉矶县生活中备受珍视且不可或缺的复杂性。“维森特·西索：土地与水的记忆”将于1月13日（周六）开幕，招待会时间为下午6点至8点。展览将持续至3月3日（周日）。
  - id: test-en-news-beverly-press-3585-5
    source: The Tierra del Sol Gallery is located at 7414 Santa Monica Blvd. For information,
      visit tierradelsolgallery.org.
    target: Tierra del Sol画廊位于圣莫尼卡大道7414号。如需了解更多信息，请访问tierradelsolgallery.org。
  - id: test-en-news-brisbanetimes-com-au-228963-6
    source: Adapt the old, accommodate the new to solve issue
    target: 改造旧有、容纳新生以解决问题
  - id: test-en-news-brisbanetimes-com-au-228963-7
    source: At the precinct level, we just need to look at the Sydney CBD as an example
      of an area which has grown from its pre-settlement landscape into a two-storey
      city, from a maximum height of 150 feet to the soaring towers of today. At a
      much scaled-down level, the same can occur across Sydney's town centres located
      around transport nodes. Inner suburbs must also evolve, with a swing to more
      affordable apartment living at heights below the tree tops on key sites. Of
      course, the new growth in housing needs to be well-designed and trees, landscaping
      and parks need to be included along with other essential infrastructure.
    target: 在区域层面，我们只需看看悉尼中央商务区这个例子——它从殖民前的自然地貌发展成一座两层楼的城市，从最高150英尺到如今高耸的塔楼。在规模小得多的层面上，同样的情况可以发生在悉尼各交通枢纽周边的城镇中心。内城区也必须发展，在关键地块上转向树冠高度以下、价格更实惠的公寓生活。当然，新增住房需要精心设计，树木、景观绿化和公园以及其他必要基础设施也需要一并纳入。
  - id: test-en-news-brisbanetimes-com-au-228963-8
    source: Our planning system also needs to adapt so that planners in suburban councils,
      who seem to be less supportive of change, are not the only determinants of the
      future shape of their suburbs. A way forward could be to have an independent
      decision-making body that championed quality design as long as it fitted below
      the tree tops and incorporated family living, large balconies, common gardens
      and presented a friendly appearance. This could be a role for the current NSW
      government architect working within a carefully crafted complying code.
    target: 我们的规划体系也需要调整，使郊区议会的规划师——他们似乎不太支持变革——不再是决定郊区未来形态的唯一力量。一个可行的方向是设立独立的决策机构，只要设计符合树冠以下的高度要求，包含家庭居住空间、大阳台、公共花园，并呈现友好的外观，就予以支持。这可以交由现任新南威尔士州政府建筑师在精心制定的合规规范框架内承担。
  - id: test-en-news-brisbanetimes-com-au-228963-9
    source: Over the past decade, our lives have changed through technology, with
      many working from home, and Sydney has gained an impressive network of metro
      and light rail systems. Our ability to purchase online has changed the way we
      shop, and friends and family seem closer because of smartphone communication.
      All of these adaptations from one system to another can also occur in our built
      environment through a planning focus on adaptive reuse rather than preferencing
      heritage preservation.
    target: 过去十年，科技改变了我们的生活，许多人居家办公，悉尼也建成了令人瞩目的地铁和轻轨网络。在线购物的便利改变了我们的购物方式，智能手机通讯让朋友和家人似乎更亲近了。所有这些从一个体系到另一个体系的转变，同样可以发生在我们的建成环境中——只要规划重点放在适应性再利用上，而不是一味偏好遗产保护。
  - id: test-en-news-brisbanetimes-com-au-228963-10
    source: Chris Johnson is a former NSW government architect (1995-2005) and executive
      director, NSW Department of Planning (2005-2009). He was CEO of Urban Taskforce
      Australia between 2011 and 2019.
    target: 克里斯·约翰逊曾任新南威尔士州政府建筑师（1995-2005年）和新南威尔士州规划部执行主任（2005-2009年）。2011年至2019年间，他担任澳大利亚城市工作组首席执行官。
  - id: test-en-news-csmonitor-com-7750-11
    source: A final push for female equality
    target: 为女性平等做最后冲刺
  - id: test-en-news-csmonitor-com-7750-12
    source: Last year, the World Economic Forum forecast that it would take five generations
      to achieve gender equality in every nation. Now the World Bank wants to rapidly
      accelerate that time frame.
    target: 去年，世界经济论坛预测，要在所有国家实现性别平等需要五代人的时间。如今，世界银行希望大幅加快这一进程。
  - id: test-en-news-csmonitor-com-7750-13
    source: The international financial institution is poised to launch a strategy
      aimed at significantly advancing the rights and economic opportunities for girls
      and women by 2030. The plan focuses on improving inclusivity and resilience
      through access to finance, technological innovation, and changes in public policy
      and law.
    target: 这家国际金融机构准备推出一项战略，旨在到2030年大幅提升女童和妇女的权利与经济机会。该计划侧重于通过金融服务获取、技术创新以及公共政策和法律的变革来提高包容性和韧性。
  - id: test-en-news-csmonitor-com-7750-14
    source: '"Recent research demonstrates that both social norms and mindsets can
      change, for example, that engaging men and boys can foster their support and
      buy-in for gender equality," a consultative draft of the plan states. "Positive
      gender outcomes can be accelerated and scaled with a better understanding of
      ... how social norms and mindsets shape everyday expectations, priorities, and
      practices."'
    target: “近期研究表明，社会规范和思维方式都是可以改变的，例如，让男性和男孩参与进来可以促进他们对性别平等的支持和认同，”该计划的咨询草案指出。“如果能更好地理解……社会规范和思维方式如何塑造日常的期望、优先事项和实践，积极的性别成果就能加速实现并扩大规模。”
  - id: test-en-news-csmonitor-com-7750-15
    source: Shifts in thought are harder to quantify than bank loans for rural women
      or school enrollment for girls. Yet there is plenty of evidence that female
      agency can move mountains. In Iran, for example, women have led the greatest
      threat to the Islamic government in 40 years simply by refusing to comply with
      laws that force them to cover their hair. In some of the 130 countries with
      minimum quotas for female representation in government, such as India, male
      resistance to female voting and political activism has eased.
    target: 思想观念的转变比向农村妇女发放贷款或女童入学率更难量化。然而，有大量证据表明，女性的能动性可以移山倒海。例如，在伊朗，女性仅仅通过拒绝遵守强制佩戴头巾的法律，就对伊斯兰政府构成了40年来最大的威胁。在130个对政府中女性代表比例设有最低配额的国家中，以印度为例，男性对女性投票和政治参与的抵制已经有所缓解。
  - id: test-en-news-csmonitor-com-7750-16
    source: In some rural African communities, civil society organizations are replacing
      a harmful rite of passage with health education. One such program helped Kamanda
      Timayio, leader of the Masai village of Maparasha, Kenya, change his mind about
      female genital mutilation. He told Le Monde that he had "emerged from ignorance"
      and would abandon the practice.
    target: 在一些非洲农村社区，民间社会组织正在用健康教育取代一种有害的成年礼仪式。其中一个项目帮助肯尼亚马帕拉沙马赛村村长卡曼达·蒂马约改变了对女性割礼的看法。他告诉《世界报》，自己已经“走出无知”，将放弃这一做法。
  - id: test-en-news-csmonitor-com-7750-17
    source: The World Bank cites other examples. From 1970 to 2022, Bangladesh quadrupled
      female literacy rates and doubled female participation in the labor force. Its
      gross domestic product more than tripled. The change gathered its own momentum.
      Recruiting salaried women as teachers and health workers from within their own
      communities boosted trust "and made women's mobility and work more socially
      acceptable."
    target: 世界银行还引用了其他例子。从1970年到2022年，孟加拉国的女性识字率翻了两番，女性劳动力参与率翻了一番。其国内生产总值增长了两倍多。这种变化形成了自身的动力。从社区内部招募有薪女性担任教师和卫生工作者，增强了信任，“使女性的出行和工作更容易被社会接受。”
  - id: test-en-news-csmonitor-com-7750-18
    source: The bank's plan would target norms and institutions that may still require
      generational shifts. It has taken Rwanda more than two decades to establish
      itself as a model for land reforms that boost economic empowerment for women."No
      one benefits if women are held back," Rwanda President Paul Kagame said, arguing
      for land reform in 2015. "We have to change mindsets, not just the laws."
    target: 世界银行的计划将针对可能仍需要代际转变的规范和制度。卢旺达花了二十多年时间才成为通过土地改革增强女性经济赋权的典范。“如果女性受到阻碍，没有人会受益，”卢旺达总统保罗·卡加梅在2015年为土地改革辩护时表示。“我们必须改变思维方式，而不仅仅是法律。”
  - id: test-en-news-csmonitor-com-7750-19
    source: The World Bank hopes to spread that message.
    target: 世界银行希望传播这一信息。
  - id: test-en-news-economist-14223-20
    source: German farmers and train drivers are scaring Germany's bosses
    target: 德国农民和火车司机让德国老板们感到恐慌
  - id: test-en-news-economist-14223-21
    source: In Germany, where workers and bosses run many companies jointly, a big
      strike is unusual. A wave of big strikes is almost unheard of. Right now the
      country of "co-determination" is simultaneously facing an eight-day "action
      week" by irate farmers, who blocked roads with tractors, a three-day strike
      of railway workers and, to top it off, a looming strike of doctors, who already
      closed surgeries between Christmas and New Year's Day. This Mistgabelmop (pitchfork
      mob), as some have taken to calling it, will test Germany's harmonious labour
      relations in the year to come.
    target: 在德国，工人和老板共同管理许多公司，大规模罢工并不常见。一波大规模罢工更是闻所未闻。如今，这个“共同决定”的国家正同时面临愤怒农民的八天“行动周”——他们用拖拉机封锁道路、铁路工人为期三天的罢工，以及最糟糕的是，医生即将举行的罢工——他们已经在圣诞节到元旦期间关闭了诊所。这个被一些人称为“干草叉暴民”的运动，将在未来一年考验德国和谐的劳资关系。
  - id: test-en-news-economist-14223-22
    source: The protests were ostensibly set off by the government's decision to end
      subsidies for diesel fuel used in agriculture and to cut an exemption from car
      tax for farm vehicles. These measures pushed farmers over the edge. It also
      mobilised other angry workers, already straining under the pressure of inflation,
      recession and the government's self-imposed austerity. On January 9th drivers
      of freight and passenger trains at Deutsche Bahn, the national railway, began
      a strike over working hours and pay.
    target: 抗议活动的导火索表面上是政府决定终止农业用柴油补贴并取消农用车辆的车税豁免。这些措施让农民忍无可忍。这也动员了其他愤怒的工人，他们早已在通胀、衰退和政府自我施加的紧缩政策压力下不堪重负。1月9日，德国国家铁路公司德国铁路的货运和客运列车司机因工作时间和薪酬问题开始罢工。
  - id: test-en-news-economist-14223-23
    source: In an effort to defuse the tension with the farmers, the government agreed
      to a gradual removal of the diesel subsidy over three years and to keeping the
      exemption from the car tax. The farmers pooh-poohed the concessions as insufficient.
      On January 4th an aggressive group of them prevented Robert Habeck, the economy
      minister, from disembarking from a ferry on his return from a family holiday.
      If the train drivers are similarly unimpressed, that could prove expensive for
      German business, reckons IW Köln, a think-tank. The rail strike could cost businesses
      €100m ($110m) a day if it forced them to interrupt production. The car, chemical
      and steel industries, Germany's biggest, are especially reliant on rail transport.
    target: 为缓和与农民的紧张关系，政府同意在三年内逐步取消柴油补贴，并保留车税豁免。农民对这些让步嗤之以鼻，认为远远不够。1月4日，一群激进的农民阻止经济部长罗伯特·哈贝克在结束家庭假期后下渡轮。智库IW Köln认为，如果火车司机同样不买账，那对德国企业来说代价可能十分高昂。如果铁路罢工迫使企业中断生产，每天可能造成1亿欧元（1.1亿美元）的损失。德国最大的汽车、化工和钢铁行业尤其依赖铁路运输。
  - id: test-en-news-economist-14223-24
    source: The workers" mood is increasingly angry. "Appeals are circulating with
      fantasies of revolution," warned Mr Habeck. The far-right Alternative for Germany
      party is doing its best to fan the grievances. In Dresden the Free Saxons, another
      far-right group, infiltrated the farmers" protest calling for the "extinction
      of the traffic light" (as the governing coalition of the Social Democrats, Free
      Democrats and Greens is referred to because of their party colours).
    target: 工人们的情绪越来越愤怒。“带有革命幻想的呼吁正在流传，”哈贝克警告说。极右翼的德国选择党正竭力煽动不满情绪。在德累斯顿，另一个极右翼组织“自由萨克森人”渗透进了农民的抗议活动，呼吁“消灭红绿灯”（这是对由社民党、自民党和绿党组成的执政联盟的称呼，因其政党颜色而得名）。
  - id: test-en-news-economist-14223-25
    source: Thomas Puls of IW Köln fears that the strikes will harm the image of Germany
      as a place for business. Local bosses are already fretting about a German version
      of the gilets jaunes protests in France in 2018, which culminated in yellow-jacketed
      demonstrators torching cars on the Champs-Elysées and the police stepping in
      with tear gas. Jochen Kopelke, head of Germany's police union, warned in an
      interview with Tagesspiegel, a daily, that the farmers were probably "just the
      start of an enormous wave of protest this year." Germany was the only big economy
      to shrink in 2023, and the year ended on an especially sour note, with an unexpected
      drop in business confidence in December. This year is shaping up to be even
      tougher.
    target: IW Köln的托马斯·普尔斯担心罢工将损害德国作为商业目的地的形象。德国本土老板们已经在担忧出现2018年法国“黄背心”抗议活动的德国版本——那场运动最终以黄背心示威者在香榭丽舍大街焚烧汽车、警方使用催泪瓦斯介入而告终。德国警察工会主席约亨·科佩尔克在接受日报《每日镜报》采访时警告说，农民可能只是“今年巨大抗议浪潮的开端”。德国是2023年唯一出现萎缩的大型经济体，年末尤其令人沮丧，12月商业信心意外下降。今年可能会更加艰难。
  - id: test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-26
    source: Brewers froth over winemakers" exemption from anti-waste rules
    target: 酿酒商对葡萄酒商豁免反浪费规则感到愤怒
  - id: test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-27
    source: As the EU debates rules to limit packaging waste, beer producers argue
      they are being unfairly discriminated against with exemptions for winemakers
      from reuse targets and deposit-return schemes, but one of Europe's wine industry
      association chiefs says brewers should "mind their own business."
    target: 在欧盟就限制包装废弃物的规则进行辩论之际，啤酒生产商认为，葡萄酒商获得再利用目标和押金返还计划的豁免，是对他们的不公平歧视。但欧洲葡萄酒行业协会的一位负责人表示，酿酒商应该“管好自己的事”。
  - id: test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-28
    source: European brewers have warned that exempting wine and not beer from deposit
      return schemes and reuse targets is unfair and potentially illegal, as lawmakers
      enter final talks over a new law designed to turn a surging tide of packaging
      waste across the EU.
    target: 欧洲酿酒商警告说，在押金返还计划和再利用目标上豁免葡萄酒而不豁免啤酒是不公平的，甚至可能是非法的。目前立法者正就一项旨在扭转欧盟各地包装废弃物激增趋势的新法律进行最后谈判。
  - id: test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-29
    source: Environment ministers agreed an EU Council negotiating mandate on the
      proposed Packaging and Packaging Waste Regulation (PPWR) before Christmas, paving
      the way for imminent political talks with the European Parliament, which are
      already underway at the technical level.
    target: 环境部长们在圣诞节前就拟议的《包装和包装废弃物法规》（PPWR）达成了欧盟理事会谈判授权，为即将与欧洲议会进行的政治谈判铺平了道路，技术层面的谈判已经在进行中。
  - id: test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-30
    source: '"Our position is clear," the trade association Brewers of Europe wrote
      to MEPs and government negotiators (10 January). "If targets and mandatory requirements
      in the PPWR apply to beer then there is a legal obligation that they apply to
      all alcoholic beverage categories."'
    target: “我们的立场很明确，”行业协会“欧洲酿酒商”在1月10日致欧洲议会议员和政府谈判代表的信中写道。“如果PPWR中的目标和强制性要求适用于啤酒，那么在法律上就有义务将其适用于所有酒精饮料类别。”
  - id: test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-31
    source: The 18 December ministerial summit yielded a carve out for winemakers
      from the requirement that, by the end of the decade, 10% of products must be
      supplied in reusable containers within a system for reuse or refill, rising
      to 40% in 2040. The exemption would also apply to the requirement, likewise
      supported by the European Parliament, that wine should be exempt from deposit-return
      schemes that should be put in place by 2029 under the proposal.
    target: 12月18日的部长级峰会为葡萄酒商争取到了豁免——根据要求，到本十年末，10%的产品必须在可重复使用或可再填充的系统中以可重复使用容器供应，到2040年这一比例将升至40%。该豁免同样适用于另一项要求——欧洲议会同样支持葡萄酒应豁免于押金返还计划，根据该提案，押金返还计划应在2029年前建立。
  - id: test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-32
    source: Both the Czech and Belgian ministers immediately expressed reservations
      at the 18 December summit about the unequal treatment for brewers, but acquiesced.
      Belgium, which now chairs the rotating EU Council presidency and is therefore
      in principle neutral in terms of inter-governmental negotiations, hopes to clinch
      a deal with the parliament by early March.
    target: 捷克和比利时两国部长在12月18日的峰会上立即对酿酒商受到的不平等待遇表示保留意见，但还是默许了。比利时目前担任欧盟理事会轮值主席国，因此在政府间谈判中原则上保持中立，希望在3月初之前与议会达成协议。
  - id: test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-33
    source: Ignacio Sánchez Recarte, secretary general of the Comité Européen des
      Entreprises Vins trade association representing some 7,000 wine producers across
      Europe, is dismissive of the concerns of the beer makers. He told Euronews that
      a market dominated by multinational brewing conglomerates bears no comparison
      with one comprised almost entirely of small, domestic producers.
    target: 代表欧洲约7000家葡萄酒生产商的欧洲葡萄酒企业委员会贸易协会秘书长伊格纳西奥·桑切斯·雷卡特对啤酒制造商的担忧不屑一顾。他告诉欧洲新闻台，由跨国酿造集团主导的市场与几乎完全由小型本土生产商组成的市场不可相提并论。
  - id: test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-34
    source: More than 99% of the domestic wine sector is made up of micro- to medium-sized
      companies, Sánchez Recarte said, questioning the solidity of legal arguments
      made by brewers and asserting that his organisation had focused on presenting
      policy makers with information "relevant and appropriate" to its own industry.
    target: 桑切斯·雷卡特表示，国内葡萄酒行业99%以上由微型到中型企业组成。他对酿酒商提出的法律论据的可靠性提出质疑，并声称他的组织一直专注于向政策制定者提供与其行业“相关且适当”的信息。
  - id: test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-35
    source: '"It is not my role to estimate if the beer sector should have this or
      that target, as it would depend on the intrinsic characteristics of their own
      sector," Sánchez Recarte said. "In the same way, brewers should mind their own
      business and focus on their own responsibilities."'
    target: “评估啤酒行业是否应该有这样或那样的目标不是我的职责，因为这取决于他们自身行业的内在特征，”桑切斯·雷卡特说。“同样，酿酒商应该管好自己的事，专注于自己的责任。”
  - id: test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-36
    source: Brewers of Europe shared with Euronews a brief legal analysis it sent
      to the European Commission last year, where it argues that wine and beer are
      competing products that are "at least partially, substitutable with each other,"
      and which argued that rules favouring one over the other would distort the market.
    target: “欧洲酿酒商”与欧洲新闻台分享了一份去年提交给欧盟委员会的法律分析简报，其中主张葡萄酒和啤酒是竞争性产品，“至少在一定程度上可以相互替代”，并认为偏袒其中一方的规则将扭曲市场。
  - id: test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-37
    source: Simon Spillane, the lobby group's head of operations, said brewers were
      "already leading the way" in packaging sustainability, citing the example of
      beer kegs being reused around 165 times before being crushed and recycled after
      30 years. They support reuse recycling systems already in place in many countries,
      he said.
    target: 该游说团体的运营主管西蒙·斯皮兰表示，酿酒商在包装可持续性方面“已经走在前列”，他举例说啤酒桶可重复使用约165次，30年后才被压碎回收。他说，他们支持许多国家已经建立的再利用回收系统。
  - id: test-en-news-euronews-en-43091-38
    source: '"We therefore advocate for an ambitious PPWR but need a level playing
      field in packaging legislation where beer and other alcoholic beverages play
      by the same rules, with each sector contributing fairly to reaching the targets
      and supporting collection systems," Spillane told. "Any other approach puts
      the brewers at a competitive disadvantage."'
    target: “因此，我们主张制定一项雄心勃勃的PPWR，但包装立法需要公平的竞争环境，让啤酒和其他酒精饮料遵循相同的规则，每个行业都公平地为实现目标和支持回收系统做出贡献，”斯皮兰表示。“任何其他做法都会使酿酒商处于竞争劣势。”
  - id: test-en-news-newsrepublic-com-6817-39
    source: The Biden Administration Is Letting Corporate Criminals Off the Hook
    target: 拜登政府正在让企业罪犯逍遥法外
  - id: test-en-news-newsrepublic-com-6817-40
    source: Tim Whitehouse, a former EPA enforcement attorney and the executive director
      of Public Employees for Environmental Responsibility, praised the Biden administration's
      recent improvements on enforcement while acknowledging the strong headwinds
      such efforts face. "It takes years of sustained funding and political support
      to build a good enforcement program," he told me. "The instability in Congress
      is not only demoralizing to EPA staff but undermines their ability to think
      strategically over the long term."
    target: 前环保署执法律师、公职人员环境责任组织执行主任蒂姆·怀特豪斯称赞了拜登政府近期在执法方面的改进，同时也承认这些努力面临强大的阻力。“建立一个良好的执法项目需要多年的持续资金和政治支持，”他告诉我。“国会的不稳定不仅让环保署员工士气低落，还削弱了他们进行长期战略思考的能力。”
  - id: test-en-news-newsrepublic-com-6817-41
    source: The problems at the EPA are distinct but not unrelated to those at the
      Department of Justice, which handles environmental crimes via its Environment
      and Natural Resources Division, or ENRD. Prior to joining the EPA, Uhlmann -
      the EPA assistant secretary for enforcement - had served as the longtime head
      of that division's Environmental Crimes Section, from 1990 through 2007. The
      EPA sends its most serious civil and criminal cases to ENRD, which - as a relatively
      underfunded office - often relies on other agencies in helping to choose which
      fights to take on. In fiscal year 2022, the EPA deferred fewer cases to DOJ
      (88) than at any point since 2000 and concluded fewer civil judicial cases than
      it had since that time, as well. As the Environmental Integrity Project notes,
      even Trump's EPA concluded 94 civil cases and deferred 106 cases per year to
      the DOJ per year, on average.
    target: 环保署的问题与司法部的问题有所不同，但并非毫无关联。司法部通过其环境与自然资源部门（ENRD）处理环境犯罪。在加入环保署之前，环保署执法事务助理部长乌尔曼曾长期担任该部门环境犯罪科负责人，任期从1990年到2007年。环保署将其最严重的民事和刑事案件移交给ENRD，而ENRD作为一个资金相对不足的办公室，往往依赖其他机构帮助选择要处理的案件。在2022财年，环保署移交给司法部的案件（88件）比2000年以来的任何时期都少，结案的民事司法案件也少于同期。正如环境完整性项目所指出的，即使是特朗普时期的环保署，平均每年也结案94件民事案件并向司法部移交106件案件。
  - id: test-en-news-newsrepublic-com-6817-42
    source: The Department of Justice's overall approach to corporate crimes has come
      under intense scrutiny from advocates. While watchdogs have lauded some steps
      the department has taken during Merrick Garland's tenure as attorney general
      - like finally establishing a database on corporate crime - Biden's DOJ has
      also leaned heavily on leniency agreements that allow companies to defer or
      avoid prosecution, and encouraged companies to scapegoat individual employees
      so as to avoid a broader charge. Kenneth Polite Jr., former assistant attorney
      general for DOJ's Criminal Division, revised the division's corporate enforcement
      policy so as to limit prosecutions.
    target: 司法部处理企业犯罪的整体做法受到了倡导人士的密切关注。虽然监督机构对司法部在梅里克·加兰担任司法部长期间采取的一些措施表示赞赏——比如最终建立了企业犯罪数据库——但拜登政府的司法部也严重依赖宽大处理协议，允许企业推迟或避免起诉，并鼓励企业将个别员工当作替罪羊，以避免更广泛的指控。前司法部刑事司助理部长小肯尼斯·波利特修订了该司的企业执法政策，以限制起诉。